4000 Essential English Words 3 

Paul Nation 

® 2009 Compass Publishing 

All rights reserved. No pan of this book may be reproduced, stored in a 
retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, 
mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without prior 
permission in writing From the publisher. 

Acquisitions Editor. Fidel Cruz 
Project Coordinator; Annie C ho 
Destgn: Design Plus 

email: mfo@compdsspub.com 
http. 7/ www.compasspub.cam 

ISBN: 97tM-599oo-fiQA.O 

10 9 $ 7 o 5 a 3 2 1 
12 II 10 09 


Photo Credits 

Alt images © Shutterstock, Inc. 



Nation 


English 
Words / 




4000 Essential English Words 3 

Paul Nation 

© 2009 Compass Publishing 

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, stored in a 
retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, 
mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without prior 
permission in writing from the publisher. 

Acquisitions Editor: Fidel Cruz 
Project Coordinator: Annie Cho 
Design: Design Plus 

email: info@compasspub.com 
http://www.compasspub.com 

ISBN: 978-1-59966-404-0 


arise, benefactor, blacksmith, charitable, chimney, compensate, encounter, exceed, forge, 
humble, iron, ladder, modest, occupy, penny, preach, prosper, province, satisfaction, sustain ,

acquire, awkward, caretaker, deceive, discourage, fake, hatred, hut, inferior, lodge, neglect, 
newcomer, offense, overlook, repay, ridiculous, satisfactory, shepherd, venture, wheat ,

alley, ax, bunch, chore, decent, disgrace, elbow, grateful, irritate, kid, loose, offend, 
overnight, persist, pine, scar, sensation, sled, tease, valentine,

bloom, compact, curl, decay, dessert, dip, distant, eclipse, fairy, grace, leisure, mankind, . 
passion, pillow, pulse, refresh, sneeze, spice, whistle, wool ,

acquaint, cemetery, curse, disguise, fancy, flashlight, hood, inhabitant, nourish, pirate, 
publication, riddle, rot, scare, shortly, skeleton, spoil, starve, thrill, wicked ,

alert, broadcast, bulletin, bump, chop, closet, console, district, drawer, endure, execute, 
grasp, rear, senator, skull, stir, tap, tremendous, underneath, worm,

abandon, ambitious, bark, bay, brilliant, chin, complaint, deaf, enthusiastic, expedition, 
horizon, loyal, mayor, mutual, overweight, refuge, restore, rub, senses, veterinarian ,


anniversary, arithmetic, ashamed, burst, carpenter, coal, couch, drip, elegant, fabric, 
highlands, ivory, mill, needle, polish, sew, shed, thread, trim, upwards ,

ail, ally, boast, bounce, bully, carbohydrate, crawl, defeat, dial, dominant, mercy, nod, 
opponent, quarrel, rival, sore, sting, strain, torture, wrestle ,

absence, aloud, bald, blanket, creep, divorce, imitate, infant, kidnap, nap, nowhere, 
pat, relief, reproduce, rhyme, suck, urgent, vanish, wagon, wrinkle ,


abnormal, bamboo, blossom, compass, dialect, dishonest, dwarf, ecosystem, fatal, impatient, 
leaf, manuscript, marsh, patience, perfume, pond, proverb, pursuit, recite, wilderness ,

anticipate, barrel, beam, casual, caution, contrary, deliberate, dissolve, explode, fasten, 
germ, kit, puff, rag, scatter, scent, steel, swift, toss, triumph ,

aboard, bitter, bullet, devil, drift, enforce, fountain, harbor, inhabit, march, millionaire, 
port, sheriff, startle, sweat, trigger, unify, vessel, voyage, worship ,

apprentice, assure, bandage, bleed, bond, chef, crown, departure, diligent, emperor, 
fiber, horrible, impolite, kneel, luxury, massive, panic, priority, robe, scold ,

affair, assembly, bless, cereal, cheerful, diameter, exploit, famine, harvest, merry, nut, r . 
pardon, pharaoh, ripe, roast, routine, scheme, slim, stove, theft ,

adolescent, aptitude, compliment, hinder, journalism, jury, justice, liberty, literary, 
pharmacy, pill, presume, privacy, punishment, sensible, slice, sorrow, straw, swell, tidy,

affection, agency, ash, confine, dismiss, erupt, fate, lava, miserable, navigate, originate, 
remainder, retrieve, shallow, slope, span, superstition, sympathy, vibrate, wander ,


armor, blaze, boom, cliff, flame, independence, invasion, knight, lightning, rebel, retreat, 
revolution, spear, steep, summit, thunder, troops, warrior, withdraw, yield ,


bench, confront, daisy, dispute, horror, incident, mist, object, orphan, plot, pregnant, 
rage, revenge, shame, sigh, sneak, spare, stem, supper, tender ,

beneath, cub, dawn, dissatisfied, ease, evident, hail, howl, leap, magnificent, necessity, 
outcome, pile, profound, seize, squeeze, supreme, terrific, trait, vital ,

accustomed, affirm, astonished, bang, clan, dim, emphasis, fable, feast, glow, hollow, 
instinct, joint, leak, physician, sacrifice, stiff, stroke, tragic, tune ,


accommodate, circus, coincide, commission, dose, dye, extent, gender, headline, 
informal, inquire, messenger, peer, portrait, pose, ranch, steer, stripe, tame, tempt ,

Aborigine, ban, cautious, confess, cottage, daytime, desperate, fade, fierce, gamble, 
lawn, mow, outlaw, prospect, purse, rod, seldom, shave, terrified, wizard,


baggage, bulb, bundle, cattle, flee, graze, greed, herd, initiate, lane, luggage, nerve,

optimist, parade, pave, phantom, portable, poster, scratch, symphony, widow,

circulate, consequent, derive, drown, dynasty, fraction, frost, illusion, invade, lieutenant, 
marine, merit, navy, polar, ray, resign, suicide, tremble, underlying, via,

alter, aside, autumn, blend, collapse, crush, curve, disgusting, drain, embrace, envy, 
fireworks, flour, fuse, ginger, jealous, paste, receipt, wipe, wire,


acknowledge, ambassador, blonde, conquer, drag, exaggerate, heritage, insult, meanwhile, 
necklace, noble, precious, prejudice, rumor, sin, spectacle, stack, suspicious, tin, vase ,

ache, arctic, canal, chemist, chill, congress, dairy, descend, grocer, hesitate, institution, 
jog, merchant, poke, postpone, splash, stubborn, suburb, tide, tragedy ,

bomb, certificate, circumstance, coffin, cope, criticism, devastate, frown, gaze, glance, , 
grief, groom, license, microscope, nuclear, portray, rotate, souvenir, submarine, trace ,

appliance, basin, broom, caterpillar, cupboard, delicate, emerge, handicap, hook, hop, 
laundry, pursue, reluctant, sleeve, spine, stain, strip, swear, swing, utilize



About the Vocabulary 

The 600 words in each book of this series along with the additional target words 
presented in the appendices included in the first three books of the series are the most 
useful words in English. They were found by analysis of a collection of English course 
books from various levels in the primary, secondary and tertiary school systems. The 
words included in this series were chosen because they occurred many times in different 
levels of these materials. Because of the way 

that they were chosen, these words have the following characteristics: 

1 They are useful in both spoken and written English. No matter what English course 
you are studying, the words in these books will be of value to you. 

2 Each word in these books is a high-frequency word. This means that the effort in 
learning the words is well repaid by the number of times learners have a chance to 
encounter or use them. 

3 These books as a whole cover a large proportion of the words in any spoken or written 
text. They cover at least 80% of the words in newspapers and academic texts, and 

at least 90% of the words in novels. They also cover at least 90% of the words in 
conversation. 


About the Books 

The activities in these books are specially designed to make use of important learning 
conditions. Firstly, the words are introduced using sentence definitions and an example 
sentence. The activities that follow in the units encourage learners to recall the meanings 
and forms of the words. Some activities also make the learners think about the meaning 
of the words in the context of a sentence — a sentence different from the sentences that 
occurred in the introduction of the words. Moreover, each unit ends with a story containing 
the target words. While reading the story, the learners have to recall the meanings of the 
words and suit them to the context of the story. Such activities help learners develop a 
better understanding of a common meaning for a given word which fits the different uses. 

Illustrations for each target word are provided to help learners visualize the word as it 
is being used in the example sentence. These word/image associations aim to help 
students grasp the meaning of the word as well as recall the word later. 


It should be noted that words have more than one grammatical category. However, this 
series focuses on the word’s most common form. This is mentioned to remind learners 
that just because a word is labeled and utilized as a noun in this series does not mean 
that it can never be used in another form such as an adjective. This series has simply 
focused on the word in the form that it is most likely to be expressed. 

Supporting Learning with Outside Activities 

A well-balanced language course provides four major opportunities for learning: learning 
through input, learning through output, deliberate learning, and fluency development. The 
highly structured activities in these books support all four types of learning opportunities. 
In addition, learning can further be supported through the following activities: 

1 Have students create vocabulary cards with one word from the unit on one side of the 
card and the translation of the word in the student’s first language on the other side. 
Students should use the cards for study in free moments during the day. Over several 
weeks, students will find that quick repeated studying for brief periods of time is more 
effective than studying for hours at one sitting. 

2 Assign graded readers at students’ appropriate levels. Reading such books provides 
both enjoyment as well as meaning-focused input which will help the words stick in 
students’ memory. 

3 Practice reading fluency to promote faster recall of word meaning for both sight 
recognition and usage. Compass Publishing’s Reading for Speed and Fluency is a 
good resource for reading fluency material. 

4 Include listening, speaking, and writing activities in classes. Reinforcement of the 
high-frequency vocabulary presented in this series is important across all the four 
language skills. 


Paul Nation is professor of Applied Linguistics in the School of Linguistics and Applied Language Studies 
at Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand. He has taught in Indonesia, Thailand, the United States, 
Finland, and Japan. His specialist interests are language teaching methodology and vocabulary learning. 


Author Paul Nation 


ft 



arise feraiz] v . 

To arise is to happen. 

Difficulties arose with his computer because it was old. 




benefactor [benafaekta/ - ] n. 

A benefactor is a person who gives money to help someone. 

-» The student’s benefactor gave him money to spend on his studies. 

blacksmith [blseksmie] n. 

A blacksmith is a person who makes things out of metal. 

— The blacksmith pounded the piece of metal until it was flat. 

Charitable [tjasratabal] ad}. 

When someone is charitable, they help people who are in need. 

— My sister was charitable enough to help me buy my first house. 

chimney [tjimni] n. 

A chimney is a tall pipe used to carry smoke out of a building. 

The cat was on the roof sitting next to the chimney. 

compensate [kampanseit] v. 

To compensate is to pay someone for the time they spent doing something. 

-» Her boss compensated her for the extra work she did last week. 

encounter [inkauntar] v. 

If you encounter something, you meet or come close to it. 

-* I encountered a sea turtle while I was swimming. 

exceed [ikslid] v. 

To exceed is to be more than something. 

-♦ Since I exceeded my limit , I decided to get rid of my credit cards. 

forge [fo:rd3] v. 

To forge is to make or produce, especially with difficulty. 

-♦ Stacy and Heather forged their friendship when they were teenagers. 

humble [hAmbl] adj. 

People who are humble do not believe that they are better than other people. 
-» Even though Bob is the smartest boy in his class, he is humble. 


8 



iron [aiem] n. 

Iron is a strong metal that is used to make many objects. 

-♦ The horse had shoes made of iron. 

ladder [iscM n . 

A ladder is an object that is used to climb up and down things. 

-* He used a ladder to climb to the top of his tree house. 

modest [madist] adj. 

If people are modest, they do not think that they are too important. 

— Derek is very modest for someone who is so rich. 

OCCUpy [dkjepai] v. 

To occupy a place is to live, work, or be there. 

Kevin and Alice occupied the chairs and had a long discussion. 

penny [peni] n. 

A penny is a coin worth one cent. 

-» U.5. President Abraham Lincoln is on the penny. 

preach [pittj] v. 

To preach is to talk about and promote a religious idea. 

Aaron often preached about living an honest life. 

prosper [prosper] V. 

To prosper is to be successful or make a lot of money. 

-* Frank’s new business finally prospered after many years of hard work. 

province [proves] n. 

A province is a small area that is controlled by a country. 

-► Canada is divided into several different provinces. 

Satisfaction [saetisfaekjan] n. 

Satisfaction is a feeling you get when you do or receive something good. 
Brad was filled with satisfaction when he saw what was for dinner. 

SUStain [sastein] v. 

To sustain something is to keep it going. 

-+ Wind power is a clean way to sustain a city with energy. 





^ A Choose the right word for the given definition. 


to make or produce with difficulty 
a. prosper b. arise 

c. 

penny 

d. 

forge 

a person who works with metal 
a. iron b. blacksmith 

c. 

charitable 

d. 

benefactor 

to keep something going 
a. exceed b. sustain 

c. 

preach 

d. 

occupy 

a small area that is part of a country 
a. ladder b. province 

c. 

encounter 

d. 

compensate 

thinking oneself not to be too important 
a. humble b. satisfaction 

c. 

chimney 

d. 

modest 


P/M'O 2 3 B Choose the right definition for the given word. 


1. benefactor 
a. giver 
c. money 


b. an area 
d. too much 


2. compensate 

a. where smoke goes 
c. a tool used to climb 


b. to shape metal 

d. to pay someone in return 


3 . occupy 
a. to be rich 

c. to see someone you know 


b. to happen 
d. to be in a place 


4 . iron 

a. a baby 

c. a good feeling 


b. a type of metal 

c. a person who makes things with metal 


5 . exceed 

a. to keep something going 
c. to be kind to others 


b. to not talk about yourself too much 
d. to go past a certain limit 


10 



Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. Which of the following is a form of money? 

a. A province b. A penny 

c. A blacksmith d. A ladder 


2 . 


If you meet a boy on the street, you 
a. exceed 
c. encounter 


_ him. 
b. occupy 
d. sustain 


3. Which of the following is a good feeling? 

a. Modest b. Humble 

c. Satisfaction d. Charitable 


4. Which one is part of a house? 
a. Forge 
c. Arise 


b. Compensate 
d. Chimney 


5. 


Which word relates to the word religion ? 
a. Iron 

c. Benefactor 


b. Preach 
d. Prosper 


6. Which of the following means to happen? 

a. Sustain b. Arise 

c. Province d. Prosper 


7. Which of the following do people use to reach high places? 
a. A chimney b. A blacksmith 

c. A benefactor d. A ladder 


8. If you are smart with your money, then what will happen to you? 

a. You will occupy a jail cell b. You will forge a strong relationship 

c. You will prosper d. You will become humble 

9. If someone gives money to others, we could say that they are . 

a. charitable b. modest 

c. prosper d. exceed 

10. Which of the following describes someone who thinks they are no betterthan others? 
a. Benefactor b. Satisfaction 

c. Humble d. Compensate 



The Real St. Nick 

At Christmas, children wait for St. Nicholas to bring gifts down the chimney. But it’s 
not just a story. St. Nicholas was a real person. 

A long time ago, a man named Marcus occupied a house with his family. He was not 
modest. He always told everybody he was the strongest man in the province. 

He worked hard, but he could barely sustain his family. He wanted to save money 
and prosper. Still, he could never earn a penny more than he needed. 

One day, Marcus made an agreement with a blacksmith. The blacksmith had a lot of 
work to do. But he couldn’t do it all by himself. Marcus wanted to help him forge iron. 
The blacksmith agreed to compensate him with a lot of money. 

In the same town, there was a man named Nicholas. At an early age, Nicholas 
started preaching. But he also believed that he should be humble and charitable. He 
learned that helping people gave him even more satisfaction than preaching. 

One day, Nicholas encountered Marcus. Marcus told Nicholas about his agreement 
with the blacksmith. “I worked hard for him,” Marcus said, “but a problem arose. Even 
though I worked for him, he didn’t pay me.” 

Nicholas wanted to help Marcus. That night, he went backto Marcus’s house. He 
brought a bag of gold. It exceeded the amount that Marcus needed. Nicholas climbed 
up a ladder and dropped the bag of gold down the chimney. Marcus thanked his 
benefactor. 

Soon, people found out about Nicholas’s gift. He became well known and loved. 
Even today, people still give secret gifts to children. And we say they are from St. 
Nicholas. 



A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Marcus occupied a home with Nicholas. 


2. Marcus told Nicholas about his problem when he encountered Nicholas. 


3. A problem arose for Marcus because he enjoyed preaching. 


4. Nicholas got a lot of satisfaction from being charitable and humble. 


5. Marcus was compensated by the blacksmith for helping forge iron. 


6. The money that Nicholas gave Marcus exceeded the amount he needed. 


\p[ B Answer the questions. 

1. Which of the following is true about the job Marcus did? 

a. He made pennies. b. He was compensated unfairly, 

c. He preached to people. d. He barely sustained his family. 


2. Why didn’t Nicolas tell people that he gave money away? 


a. He prospered. 

c. He wanted to be humble. 


b. He didn’t want to be modest, 
d. He wasn’t popular in the province. 


3. What was dropped down the chimney? 
a. A penny 
c. Gold 


b. A ladder 
d. A benefactor 


4. Why did Marcus want more money? 
a. To buy more iron 
c. To give it away 


b. To feed his family 
d. To become a blacksmith 







acquire [ekwaier] v. 

To acquire something is to gain possession of it. 

-> Tina acquired a strange package yesterday. 

awkward [6;kw8rd] adj. 

If something is awkward, it is embarrassing and uncomfortable. 

-* After dropping his coffee cup, Robbie felt awkward. 

caretaker [kEa/leiker] n. 

A caretaker is a person who takes care of very young, old, or sick people. 

-> My grandmother’s caretaker helps her get around the house. 

deceive [disi v] * 

To deceive someone is to make them believe something that is not true. 

-♦ He tried to deceive his friends as they were playing a game. 

discourage [disk9:rid3] v. 

To discourage someone is to make them feel less excited about something. 

-> Mr. Perry discouraged the students from quitting school. 

fake [feik] adj. 

If something is fake, it is made to look real in orderto trick people. 

-► The model was wearing fake eyelashes. 

hatred [heitrid] n. 

Hatred is a strong feeling of not liking someone or something. 

-* I have a hatred for the taste of medicine. 

hut IhAt) n. 

A hut is a house made of wood, grass, or mud that has only one ortwo rooms. 
-► We all went into the hut to sleep. 

inferior [infiariar] adj. 

If something is inferior, it is not as good as something else. 

-» Cars built a hundred years ago are inferior to ones built today. 

lodge [lad 3 l n. 

A lodge is a house in the mountains, used by people who hunt or fish. 

-♦ During our ski trip, we stayed at a lodge. 


14 




neglect [niglekt] /. 

To neglect someone or something is to not take care of it properly. 

— William neglected his room, so it is a complete mess. 

newcomer [ryu :Whms:r] n . 

A newcomer is a person who has recently arrived at a place or a group. 

-* The students happily welcomed the newcomer to the school. 

Offense [afens] n. 

An offense is behavior that is wrong or breaks a law. 

-» Stealing a car is a very serious offense. 

overlook [ouvarluk] v. 

To overlook something is to not notice it, or to not realize that it is important. 

— Brenda overlooked the last step and had a bad fall. 

repay [ri:p&] v. 

To repay is to pay back or to reward someone or something. 

-* She repaid her friend for all of his hard work with a small gift. 

ridiculous [ridikjalas] adj. 

If something is ridiculous, it is silly or strange. 

-* Steve looked ridiculous with those huge blue sunglasses. 

satisfactory [saetisfaaktaci] adj 

If something is satisfactory, it is good enough. 

-* Mina often received satisfactory grades since she studied so hard. 

shepherd Ijepard] n. 

A shepherd is a person who protects and cares for sheep. 

The shepherd moved the sheep to another field. 

venture [vent/ar] V. 

To venture is to go to a place that may be dangerous. 

-» Even though it was dangerous, they ventured up the mountain. 

wheat l/7wi:t] n. 

Wheat is a plant which makes grain. Wheat grain is used to make bread. 

-* The field of golden wheat was ready to be harvested. 


. 


15 



P/aMT A Choose the right word for the given definition. 


1 . 

a strong feeling of not liking someone or something 



a. deceive 

b. repay 

c. offense 

d. hatred 

2. 

not as good as 
a. inferior 

b. hatred 

c. satisfactory 

d. venture 

3. 

to get something 
a. overlook 

b. discourage 

c. lodge 

d. acquire 

4. 

to go to a dangerous place 




a. wheat 

b. venture 

c. newcomer 

d. caretaker 

5. 

a plant that makes grain 




a. fake 

b. wheat 

c. shepherd 

d. hut 


B Choose the right definition for the given word. 


1. satisfactory 
a. to pretend 

c. good enough 

2. newcomer 

a. not comfortable 
c. not as good as 

3. repay 

a. to give back 

c. a house for hunting 

4. fake 

a. to fail to notice 
c. to get 

5. discouraged 
a. high place 
c. not real 


b. to care for 
d. project 

b. someone new to a place 
d. a glass lamp 

b. to not pay attention to 

d. a bad thing that someone does 

b. not real 
d. to protect 

b. to dislike a lot 
d. less excited 



Circle two words that are related in each group. 


1 . 

a. discourage 

b. lodge 

c. venture 

d. hut 

2. 

a. shepherd 

b. caretaker 

c. repay 

d. wheat 

3. 

a. offense 

b. fake 

c. hatred 

d. deceive 

4. 

a. acquire 

b. awkward 

c. newcomer 

d. ridiculous 

5. 

a. overlook 

b. inferior 

c. neglect 

d. satisfactory 






Choose the word that is the better fit for each blank. 

1. fake / newcomers 

The girl didn’t like the , so she played a joke on them. She put 

bugs in their drinks. 

2. acquire / lodge 

Dave hoped to a new house. The where he lived was too 

old. 

3. repay / neglected 

She was eager to the boy that had helped her repair her bike. While 

others had simply her, he was happy to help. 

4. offenses / discouraged 

Going to jail the man from any in the future. 

5. shepherd / venturing 

In the middle of the storm, the looked for his lost sheep by 

up the mountain. 

6. deceive / ridiculous 

My little brother tried to us by dressing in Dad’s clothes, but he just 

looked . 

7. wheat / hut 

The farmer built his close to the field so he could 

constantly watch it. 

8. awkward / caretaker 

After the started a small fire in the kitchen, he felt very . 

9. overlook / inferior 

Most shoppers tend to any products that they think are to 

similarthings. 

10. hatred / satisfactory 

She had a for food with tomatoes, but everything else on the menu was 


17 





The Shepherd 

and the Wild Sheep 

Once there was a shepherd. Every night he counted and gathered his sheep. He was 
sure never to overlook any of them. One night, he saw some wild sheep had joined his 
herd. He hoped to acquire the newcomers. 

It snowed that night. In the morning, the shepherd couldn’t take his sheep out of 
his lodge. Instead, he had to feed them inside. He gave a small amount of wheat to his 
own sheep. But he gave more of the food to the wild sheep. He thought the extra wheat 
would discourage them from leaving. 

It snowed for several days. During that time, the shepherd’s sheep ate very little. The 
wild sheep, however, ate very well. 

At last, the snow melted, and they ventured outdoors. As soon as he opened the 
door of his hut, the wild sheep started to run away. 

“Wait! This is how you repay me? After I treated you so kindly, why do you run away?” 
the shepherd asked. His voice was full of hatred. 

The wild sheep stopped and turned toward the shepherd. 

“We’re leaving because you fed us betterthan your own sheep,” one of the wild 
sheep replied. “You tried to deceive us with your ridiculous plan. Yesterday you treated 
us kindly, but tomorrow you might be different. If more wild sheep joined your herd, you 
would treat us as inferior sheep." 

As the wild sheep ran away, the shepherd understood his offense. He knew this 
awkward situation was his own fault. He had not been a satisfactory caretaker. He was 
a fake friend to the wild sheep. Because of this, he had neglected his own herd. 






' iy’A 

v .v MS 'Lu 'iQ iMi 


*>vw* 





E ICMT A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The shepherd counted his sheep because he didn’t want to overlook any of 

them. 


2. The shepherd couldn’t take the sheep outside because it was dark outside. 


3. The shepherd gave a little wheat to the wild sheep. But he gave his own sheep 

more. 


4. The wild sheep ran away from the shepherd after the snow melted. 


5. The wild sheep thought the shepherd had neglected his own sheep. 


6. The shepherd never knew what he had done wrong. 


B Answer the questions. 

1. What was the shepherd’s hope for the wild sheep? 

a. That they wouldn’t be awkward b. That they would feel hatred for him 

c. That he could acquire them d. That he could repay them 

2. How did the shepherd hope to discourage the wild sheep from running away? 

a. By giving them extra food b. By locking them in his hut 

c. By selling his own sheep d. By being their friend 

3. All of the following describe what kind of caretaker the shepherd was EXCEPT 

a. fake b. ridiculous 

c. inferior d. satisfactory 


4. What was the shepherd’s offense? 

a. He never acquired the wild sheep. b. He trapped the sheep in his lodge, 

c. He hurt the wild sheep. d. He did not care for his own sheep. 


19 




•CM 




alley [®ii] n. 

An alley is a narrow road behind houses or buildings. 

The alley behind my house looks dirty. 

ax [aeks] n. 

An ax is a tool used to cut wood. 

-> She used an ax to cut some wood for the fire. 

bunch [bAntj] n. 

A bunch is a group of the same things. 

She was hungry, so she ate the entire bunch of grapes. 

chore [tjor] n. 

A chore is a job that you have to do but don’t like. 

-* It’s Nikki’s chore to do the dishes every Tuesday and Wednesday night. 

decent [di:sant] adj. 

When something is decent, it is OK or good enough. 

-» Eric did a decent job painting the fence. 

disgrace [disgreis] n. 

Disgrace is a feeling of shame. 

-♦ He felt a sense of disgrace after failing his big exam. 

elbOW [elbou] n. 

The elbow is the middle part of a person’s arm that lets you bend it. 

She pointed to her elbow to show me where she hurt herself. 

grateful [greitfal] adj. 

When you are grateful for something, you are happy that it happened. 

-♦ The girls were grateful to have a chance to spend time with their grandfather. 

irritate [frateit] v. 

To irritate means to annoy someone. 

-* She was irritated when her brother told her that he had lost her camera. 

kid [kid] /. 

To kid is to make a joke to make someone believe something which is not true. 
-» / am not really mad. I was kidding when I said I was angry. 



loose [lu:s] adj. 

When something is loose, it is not held in place well. 

— The bolt was loose, so I tightened it with the wrench. 

Offend [efend] v. 

To offend someone means to make them angry or upset. 

They were both offended by what they had said to each other. 

overnight [ouvemait] adv. 

When something happens overnight, it happens during the night. 

-> The campers stayed in the tent overnight. 

persist [persist] v. 

To persist means to keep doing something even when it is hard. 

-♦ Even though the lesson was difficult, he persisted until he understood. 

pine [pain] n. 

A pine is a type of tree that is tall and thin. 

-» There were many beautiful pine trees in the forest. 

SCar [ska:r] n. 

A scar is a mark on the skin after a wound heals. 

-* The monster had horrible scars on his cheek and forehead. 

Sensation [senseijen] n. 

A sensation is a feeling a person gets from their senses. 

— Mom got a painful sensation in her head from the loud noise. 

sled [sled] n. 

A sled is a small vehicle that you use on snow. 

Marvin likes to ride his sled down the hill in winter. 

tease to:z] v. 

To tease someone means to laugh at or make fun of them. 

Jake teased Charlie because he was the new student. 

valentine [vaelentain] n. 

A valentine is someone you love or admire with great affection. 

-► Harry wanted Molly to be his valentine. 



P/aMT A Choose the right word for the given definition. 


1. 

not strongly put in place 



a. kid b. loose 

c. disgrace d. sensation 

2. 

thankful 



a. decent b. irritate 

c. grateful d. offend 

3. 

a job or task 



a. sled b. chore 

c. alley d. ax 

4. 

someone you love or admire 



a. valentine b. pine 

c. bunch d. elbow 

5. 

to make angry 



a. offend b. scar 

c. persist d. overnight 

PCMF B Choose the right definition for the given word. 

l. 

bunch 



a. a group of things 

b. a tool 


c. a narrow road 

d. wood from a tree 

2. 

elbow 



a. a picture 

b. a markon the skin 


c. a part of the arm 

d. a vehicle for snow 

3. 

irritate 



a. to keep trying 

b. to annoy 


c. not being serious 

d. full of thanks 

4. 

disgrace 



a. shame 

b. to make angry 


c. during the night 

d. not strongly attached 

5. 

decent 



a. to make fun 

b. a feeling from the senses 


c. a job or task 

d. good or correct 

6. 

overnight 



a. happening during the night 

b. to make fun of someone 


c. not held in place 

d. a feeling one gets from their senses 

7. 

ax 



a. a tall tree 

b. a tool used for cutting 


c. a part of the arm 

d. a feeling of shame 

8. 

tease 



a. a group of things 

b. to make a joke 


c. when something is enough 

d. to make fun of someone 

9. 

pine 



a. a job one has to do 

b. a tall tree 


c. a mark left on the skin 

d. a vehicle used in the snow 

10. 

sensation 



a. someone one loves or admires 

b. to make someone angry or mad 


c. a feeling 

d. a scar 





TffT 


Choose the word that is the better fit for each blank. 

1. ax /pine 


The man bought a big . 
in his yard. 

2. offend / tease 

The bully likes to 


He needed it to cut down a(n) 


tree 


the smaller children. He does not know that his actions 


them. 

3. overnight / loose 

The door to the shed is . 


.. It will be windy tomorrow, so I must work 


to fix it so it does not blow away. 

4. chore / grateful 

The of cutting the grass was difficult. However, the boy was . 

when he was paid for his hard work. 

5. alley / sled 

After the snow storm, the 


was covered with snow and ice. It was fun to 


ride our 


6. elbow / scar 
She hurt her. 


down the path. 

and had to go to the doctor. There is a large 


where the cut healed. 


7. persist / bunch 


She must put all of the leaves into a 
to get the job done. 


_. It will not be easy, but she must 


8. kids / irritate 

The boy always. 


his friend about things that aren’t true. But he will 


his friend if he continues this action. 


9. valentine / decent 

He thought that until he got a 


haircut, Elena would never be his 


10. sensation / disgrace 

The runner felt 

his stomach. 


when he lost the race. He had a terrible 


in 










The Boy and his Sled 

Mike was the smallest child in school. Another boy, Joe, always teased Mike. Joe had 
a large scar on his face from fighting other children. One day, Joe offended Mike when 
he made fun of Mike’s valentine, Jane. Mike felt disgrace, but he didn’t know how to 
make Joe stop. 

That day, Mike walked home down an alley. He found a bunch of wood boards next 
to a pine tree. He thought to himself, “I could build a decent sled from this. If I let Joe 
use it, he will be nicerto me and Jane.” He tookthe wood home. 

Mike got an ax and cut the wood. He used nails to make sure that the pieces were 
not loose. As he worked, he bumped his elbow on the boards. The painful sensation 
made him want to cry. It was a hard chore, but he persisted. He worked overnight. By 
morning, the sled was finished. 

Mike called Joe on the telephone. He said, “Hi Joe. Come overto my house right 
away.” 

Joe didn’t know why Mike wanted him to come over. When Joe arrived, Mike told 
him, “Joe, it irritated me the other day when you said mean things about my card to 

Jane. You weren’t kidding when you said those mean things. 
But I’m not like you. I just built this sled, and I’ll letyou 





P/MF A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Joe offended Mike by saying mean things about his valentine, Jane. 


2. Mike found a bunch of pine trees. 


3. Joe was a decent person at the beginning of the reading. 


4. Mike persisted even though the chore was very hard. 


5. Mike used his elbows to put together loose pieces. 


6. Mike told Joe he was sharing his new sled because he was a civil person. 


PGMu B Answer the questions. 

1. Which item did Mike NOT use when building the sled? 


a. Ax 
c. Alley 

2. Atthe end of the reading, Joe . 

a. was grateful that Mike was nice 

c. irritated Mike again 

3. Why did Mike feel a painful sensation? 
a. Joe teased him with the hammer. 

c. He got a scar on his face. 


b. Nail 
d. Valentine 


b. did not get to ride on the sled 
d. said he was kidding 


b. He dragged the wood home. 

d. He bumped his elbow on the boards. 


4. According to the reading, when did Mike build the sled? 
a. The next morning b. Overnight 

c. Before school d. Throughout the day 



List 




W 


blOOITI [blu:m] y. 

When a plant blooms, it makes flowers. 

-* Roses look so pretty when they bloom. 

compact [kampsekt] adj. 

If something is compact, it is smallerthan normal. 

-► A laptop computer is much more compact than a desktop model. 

Clirl [keyl] n. 

A curl is a small piece of something with a round shape. 

The colorful ribbons were bent into curls. 

decay idikei] * 

To decay is to be destroyed naturally. 

The old wooden house was slowly decaying. 

dessert [dizl:rt] n. 

Dessert is a sweet food that you eat after a meal. 

Kayla wants ice cream for dessert. 

dip [dip] v. 

To dip something is to put part of it into a liquid for a short time. 

-» Laurel dipped her strawberry into the chocolate. 

distant [distent] adj. 

If something is distant, it is far away. 

Michael could barely see the distant island. 

eclipse [iklips] n. 

An eclipse is an occasion when the moon moves in front of the sun. 
-♦ A complete eclipse of the sun is a very rare occurrence. 

fairy tfteri] n. 

A fairy is a small, magic creature with wings. 

-+ There are usually fairies in fantasy stories. 

grace [greis] n. 

Grace is a quality of moving in a smooth, relaxed and attractive way. 
— The ballerina danced with grace. 





leisure [11:33:1-1 n. 

Leisure is time when you do not have to do work. 

-* Eve likes to listen to music in her leisure time. 

mankind [maenkaind] n. 

Mankind is all of the world’s people. 

-* All of mankind has to work to make this a better world. 

passion tpaejan] n. 

Passion is a very strong feeling of wanting to do something. 

-* She had a passion for dancing. 

pillow [pilou] n. 

A pillow is something that you put your head on when you sleep. 

When I travel, I usually take along my favorite pillow. 

pulse [pAls] n. 

A pulse is the beat of the heart. 

-* The doctor checked the patient’s pulse by feeling his wrist. 

refresh [nfrej] 1/. 

To refresh someone is to make them feel less hot or tired. 

The baby was refreshed after taking a cool bath. 

sneeze [sm:zi v . 

To sneeze is to suddenly blow air out of your nose and mouth. 

-* He sneezed after smelling the flower. 

Spice [spais] n. 

A spice is a flavor for food and drinks. 

-* Two common spices found in many homes are salt and pepper. 

whistle [frwisal] v. 

To whistle is to make a sound by putting your lips together and blowing. 
As he was listening to music, Daryl whistled. 

wool [wul] n. 

Wool is the hairthat a sheep has. 

-» Grandma wants to use the blue wool to knit me a sweater. 


P/aMT A Choose the right word for the given definition. 


1. 

far away 



a. compact b. leisure 

c. distant d. passion 

2. 

a sweet thing to eat 



a. dessert b. wool 

c. mankind d. bloom 

3. 

a small magical creature 



a. pulse b. pillow 

c. grace d. fairy 

4. 

an event that covers the sun 



a. whistle b. decay 

c. eclipse d. curl 

5. 

to make someone feel less tired 



a. spice b. refresh 

c. dip d. sneeze 

P/aMT B Choose the right definition for the given word. 

l. 

whistle 



a. a flavor 

b. to make noise with one’s lips 


c. people 

d. a flower 

2. 

compact 



a. far 

b. not at work 


c. small 

d. to help tired people 

3. 

wool 



a. sheep’s hair 

b. magic creature 


b. something to eat 

d. strong feeling 

4. 

grace 



a. to chase after 

b. to get old and rot 


c. a nice way to move 

d. in the shape of a circle 

5. 

dip 



a. to blow out air 

b. something soft for your head 


c. to put in and out 

d. one of the things on your feet 

6. 

spice 



a. a flavor added to food or drink 

b. something with a round shape 


c. to make one feel less tired 

d. a sweet thing to eat 

7. 

leisure 



a. time when you do not have to work 

b. to become naturally destroyed 


c. the hairof sheep 

d. a feeling of wanting 

8. 

curl 



a. to get old and fall apart 

b. something with a curve 


c. something small 

d. to go after 

9. 

pillow 



a. somethingyou sleep on 

b. the quality of moving well 


c. an event that covers the sun 

d. faraway 

10. 

pulse 



a. not at work 

b. a magic creature 


c. the beat of one’s heart 

d. to go away 





e 


Choose the word that is the better fit for each blank. 

1. distant / compact 

Some scientists think that in the _____ future, we are going to use all of our 
fuel. One way to use less fuel is to drive a car. 

2. pulse / eclipse 

Watching the was very exciting. Afterwards, I could feel my 

going very fast. 

3. mankind /grace 

Early members of walked slowly and strangely. However, people learned 

how to move with over the years. 

4. desserts / spice 

My favorite is cinnamon. I put it in all of my favorite . 

5. bloom / decay 

In the fall, the flowers do not , I clean them up when they start to 


6. refresh / whistled 

She a song while she took a shower to herself. 

7. wool /curls 

When my father was a boy, he learned all about a sheep’s . For example, 

he learned that it forms . 

8. fairy / leisure 

Jennifer likes to paint in her time. The most recent picture she painted 

was of a . 

9. sneezing / dipped 

Kelly her feet into the pool but decided not to get in because she was 

__ a lot. She was afraid she might get others sick if she got in. 

10. pillow / passion 

The baby has a for soft things. One of the things that he loves the most 

is his . 


29 




r- 


Tiny Tina 


In a distant land, there was a kingdom where fairies lived. Tina was a fairy. She had 
yellow curls and wore a dress made of wool. She always moved with grace. However, 
because of her compact size, she was scared of mankind. 

One day, there was an eclipse of the sun. The fairies didn’t know what was happening. 
They were scared, so they ran away. 

Tina looked for a place to hide. She found a garden with flowers blooming. Tina had 
a passion for flowers. She decided to hide there. She became sleepy and made a pillow 
with some leaves. She whistled happily as she worked, and she fell asleep. 

Suddenly, somebody sneezed. The sound woke Tina up. She saw a 
very big face looking at her! Tina was so scared that she couldn’t move. 

She could feel her pulse going very fast. 

The big woman went into her house. When she came back, she 
gave Tina a cup. 

The woman sat on the ground among some 
decaying leaves. Tina dipped a finger in the cup and 
tasted it. It was tea with all kinds of delicious spices in 
it. Tina felt refreshed after drinking the tea. 

“I’m Wilma,” the lady said. “I spend all my leisure 
time in my garden cutting flowers. Would you like some 
dessert?” 

Tina said yes. She was hungry, and she wasn’t 
frightened anymore. She took a bite of cake and 
relaxed. “How did you get to my garden?” 

Tina told Wilma how she got lost. 

“That’s terrible! Let us take you home.” 

“Actually, I think that I want to stay with you,” Tina 
said. She wasn’t scared of big people anymore. Wilma 
and Tina lived happily ever after. 

/- 





PZMF A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Tina made a pillow of leaves while she whistled. 


2. Tina wore a dress made of decayed flowers. 


3. Tina decided to hide in the garden. 


4. Tina had a passion for desserts. 


5. The fairies left because they were scared by the eclipse. 


6. Wilma gave Tina some tea for dessert. 


P/MT B Answer the questions. 


3. 


4 . 


Why did Tina suddenly wake up? 



a. She felt refreshed. 

b. 

She heard someone sneeze. 

c. The leaves were decayed. 

d. 

She had a fast pulse. 

All of the following describe Tina EXCEPT 



a. she had curls in her hair 

b. 

she moved with grace 

c. she did not like tea with spice 

d. 

she was compact 

What does Wilma do with the flowers? 



a. She makes dessert with them. 

b. 

She cuts them. 

c. She dips them in gold. 

d. 

She lets them decay. 

Where did Tina live before she met Wilma? 


a. In Wilma’s garden 

b. 

In a tiny house 

c. On a street with big cars 

d. 

In a distant country 


31 




. J 

Word List } 




acquaint [akweint] v. 

To acquaint is to get to know something or someone. 

— Nancy acquainted herself with the new computer. 

cemetery [semateri] n. 

A cemetery is where people are buried when they die. 

-* Some people are scared of cemeteries. 

Curse [ka:rs] v. 

To curse someone or something is to hope that bad things happen to them. 
The witch cursed the village. 

disguise [disgaiz] n. 

A disguise is something you wear so people cannot tell who you are. 
Everyone knew that it was Dad in the Santa disguise. 

fancy [faensi] adj. 

If something is fancy, it is nicerthan normal. 

-* Their table was all set for a fancy dinner. 

flashlight [flaejlait] n. 

A flashlight is a small electric light that you carry in your hand. 

We took a flashlight when we went camping. 

hood [hud] n. 

A hood is part of a coat that goes over your head. 

She put on her hood to keep her head warm. 

inhabitant [inhsebatant] n. 

An inhabitant is a person who lives in a certain place. 

-* The number of inhabitants in the countryside is increasing. 

nourish [n§:rif] * 

To nourish something is to give it food that it needs to live. 

-*■ A good mother will nourish her baby every day. 

pirate [paiarat] n. 

A pirate is a sailor who steals things from other boats. 

-+ Pirates are very scary characters. 


publication [pAblakeiJan] n. 

A publication is something printed, like a newspaper or book. 

-» She’s been a subscriber to that publication for over ten years. 

riddle [ridl] n. 

A riddle is a question that is difficult to answer but meant to be funny. 
-* / could not answer Wendy’s riddle, but it made me laugh. 

rot [rot] v. 

When something rots, it slowly gets softer and is destroyed. 

The old log began to rot in the forest. 

SCare [skear] v. 

To scare means to cause one to feel frightened. 

-* I was scared by the sight of the monster. 

shortly [Jo:rtli] adv. 

If something will happen shortly, it will happen very soon. 

My workday will end shortly. 

Skeleton [skelatn] n. 

A skeleton is the bones of a body. 

-» There is a skeleton in the science classroom. 

spoil [spoil] V. 

If something spoils, it turns bad or rots. 

-* We left the fruit out too long, and it spoiled. 

starve [sta:rv] * 

If a person starves, they do not get enough to eat and sometimes die. 
-♦ During the war, many people starved. 

thrill [eril] n. 

A thrill is an exciting feeling. 

-» The boys enjoy the thrill of surfing a big wave. 

wicked [wikid] adj. 

If something is wicked, it is very bad or evil. 

My boss is a very wicked man. 




Choose the word that is the better fit for each blank. 


1. scared / cursed 

Mary the creature that came into her yard and her dog. 

2. skeletons / cemetery 

I don’t like to walk in the . I always think about the that 

are underthe ground there. 

3. fancy /hood 

My mother bought me a new coat. My favorite part is the warm 


4. riddles / flashlight 

When my friend stayed at my house, we sat with a . Instead of sleeping, 

we sat and told for an hour! 

5. disguise / wicked 

Judy wanted to find a that was scary. Finally, she decided to dress like 

a witch. 

6. rotted / nourish 

We planted a vegetable garden to help our family. But many of the 

plants before we could eat them. 

7. spoiled / starving 

The poor family was after all of their food . 

8. inhabitant / shortly 

Tim loves being an of that town. after he moved there, he 

made many friends. 

9. publication / thrill 

I entered a contest that was in my favorite . Imagine the 

when I won! 

10. acquainted / pirates 

Christie me with her city’s library. Since then, I have read every book 

they have about . 




'TUT 


e 2 


Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. Which of the following best describes an evil person? 

a. Shortly b. Curse c. Fancy 

2. Which one is a feeling? 

a. A thrill b. A hood 

3. Which one can you wear? 
a. A cemetery b. A disguise 

4. Which of the following is most related to death? 

a. Spoil b. Acquaint c. Starve 

5. Which of the following is most commonly related to the ocean? 

a. Rot b. Scare c. Skeleton d. Pirate 


c. A flashlight 
c. A publication 


d. Wicked 


d. An inhabitant 


d. A riddle 


d. Nourish 


e 3 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. Mom says we need to hurry because the game will start very so on. 


Ti 


2. It’s a good idea to get to know with co-workers. 


3. My little brother bothered me all day by asking me to solve his diffi cult question s. 


4. A reporter at that newspaper won a prize. 


5. I am an individual who lives in the central part of town. 


6. He was crying because he was caused to feel fright . 


7. I want to buy that really nice dress I saw in the store. 


8. I need a light I can carry to see in the dark cabin. 


9. The children were afraid that the witch would hope bad th ings would happen to them. 


10. The part of your coat that covers your head keeps your head nice and warm. 


35 








Trick-or-treat! 



Many different cultures have had traditions about the dead. People in places like 
Ireland, China, Egypt and Mexico believed that souls needed food. They thought 
the food nourished them on their journey from cemeteries to heaven. People 
had to put out good things for souls to eat. However, if the food rotted or 
spoiled, the soul got mad. The wicked soul might curse the family 
and make them starve during the winter. 

In other places, people begged for food on a holiday that V 

remembers the souls of dead saints. People wore disguises with 
hoods that covered their faces. If they did not get food, they played 
a trick on the home. For this reason, the activity is known as “trick-or- 
treating.” Shortly after people first began trick-or-treating, parents started 
sending their children to beg on that day. Housewives gave the children food 
if they performed a song or a dance. When people moved to America from 
all over the world, they brought this tradition with them. 
Inhabitants of villages started trick-or-treating in the early 
1900s. In 1939 a children’s publication acquainted the 
whole country with the tradition. It became very popular. 

Today, trick-or-treaters are not begging for food, and they are not 
scared of souls. They just enjoy the thrill of dressing up like creatures 
and getting candy. Ghosts and skeletons are favorite costumes. But 
some children wear fancy disguises, like pirates. They 
carry flashlights instead of fires. In some places, 
children still perform songs or riddles to get 
candy. But most of the time, they just say 









P/MT A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. People from places like Iceland, Italy, Kenya and Canada believed souls needed food. 


2. Many cultures believed that souls needed food to nourish them on their journey 

back to life. 


3. Housewives gave children food if they did chores around their homes. 


4. Shortly after a children’s publication wrote about trick-or-treating, it became 

popular. 


5. Children often wear fancy disguises for trick-or-treating today. 


6. Inhabitants from villages started trick-or-treating in the 1940s. 


PCMT B Answer the questions. 

1. Which of the following is the most popular disguise? 

a. Hood b. Skeleton 

c. Creature d. Pirate 

2. Why did souls need food? 

a. Theirs rotted b. They were starving 

c. Fortheirlongjourneyto heaven d. To obtain new bodies 

3. What did the souls do when they left cemeteries? 

a. Got new bodies b. Dug up skeletons 

c. Went to heaven d. Got acquainted with people 

4. Why do children perform riddles when they trick-or-treat? 

a. To get candy b. To get flashlights 

c. To get costumes d. To get a thrill 



jy 



a 


« 


alert Eala:rt] v. 

To alert someone is to tell or warn them about something. 

— The fire alarm alerted us that there was a problem. 

broadcast [bro:dkaest] n. 

A broadcast is a television or radio show. 

\Ne watched the broadcast of the local news on TV. 

bulletin [bulatin] n. 

A bulletin is a news report that talks about very recent and important events. 

— There was a live bulletin reporting on the economy of the city. 

bump [bAmp] n. 

A bump is a small raised area on a surface. 

-* The monkey got a bump on his head because he was hit by a rock. 

chop [trap] v. 

To chop something means to cut it into pieces with a tool. 

— Mom chopped some vegetables to put into the stew. 

ClOSet [klazit] n. 

A closet is a small room used to store things. 

— Marie has many clothes inside of her closet. 

console [kansoul] v. 

To console someone who is sad means to make them comforted. 

— When my dog ran away, my dad consoled me. 

district [distrikt] n. 

A district is a small part of a city, county, state, or country. 

-> I live in a residential district of Seattle, Washington. 

drawer [dro:ar] n. 

A drawer is a small part in furniture that is used to store things. 

-♦ / put my clothes into the empty drawers. 

endure [end/uar] v. 

To endure something tough means to do or go through it. 

-♦ She had to endure her husband shouting all day long. 



execute [eksikjuit] v. 

To execute someone means to kill them as a legal punishment. 

-* Some people are executed for serious crimes. 

grasp [graesp] v. 

To grasp something means to hold it. 

He grasped the bag of money tightly. 

rear [riax] n. 

When something is in the rear of something, it is in the back. 

The man loaded the rear of his truck with boxes. 

Senator [senate/-] n. 

A senator is someone who makes laws for a state. 

-» The young senator promised to make laws that would help the people. 

skull [skAl] n. 

A skull is the hard part of your head. Your brain is inside of it. 

-*■ The brain is protected by the skull. 

Stir [staid V. 

To stir something means to mix it using something small, like a spoon. 

-* Mom stirred the batter until it was smooth. 

tap [taep] v. 

To tap something is to hit it lightly. 

-» He tapped the keys of the keyboard to write a short word. 

tremendous [trimendas] adj. 

When something is tremendous, it is very large. 

The Earth’s oceans are filled with a tremendous amount of water. 

underneath [Anda/niie] prep. 

When something is underneath something else, it is below or lowerthan it. 
The roots of a tree are located underneath the ground. 

WOrm [warm] n. 

A worm is a small animal with a long, thin body. 

-♦ Worms are often used to help catch fish. 




Choose the word that is a better fit for each blank. 

1. districts / senator 

The lived in one of the poorest in the country. 

2. skull /tapped 

When he his fist on the top of his , it made a funny sound. 

3. underneath / worm 

If you want to find a , try looking rocks or pieces of wood. 

4. consoled / broadcast 

She her children by watchinga humorous with them after 

school. 

5. execute / tremendous 

She felt sorrow after her husband was for his crime. 

6. endure / bulletin 

He decided to listen to the news because he could no longer 

the boredom of being home alone. 

7. grasp / stir 

The soup was very thick. He had to the spoon with both hands in order 

to it. 

8. alerted / rear 

The television news us of the storm. We put the car in the 

of the house where it would be protected. 

9. chop / drawer 

She looked at all the tools in the but could not find anything to use to 

the meat. 

10. bump /closet 

Many toys had been piled beneath the carpet in the . The I 

got from hitting my head on the door was painful. 




Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. The mother comf orted her crying child. 

2. Every Sunday, the family watched a television show about animals. 

3. I couldn’t find mv coat in the small room . 

4. John left his paper lower than his school books. 

5. The person who makes laws sat behind a large desk. 

6. In order to get over the wall, the cat had to make a very large jump. 

7. Harold slowed the car down as he drove over the small raised part . 

8. There is very little rain in mv part of the state . 

9. Because he committed such a horrible crime, he was killed by the legal system. 

10. The cook cut into pieces the vegetables for his soup. 



Choose the answer that best fits the question. 


1. Which of the following best describes a news program? 

a. Grasp b. Bulletin c. Tap d. Alert 

2. Which one do you put things into? 

a. A drawer b. A bump c. A district d. A worm 

3. Which of the following describes something in the back? 

a. Endure b. Skull c. Rear d. Tremendous 


4. Which of the following does an alarm do for people? 

a. Alert them b. Console them c. Execute them d. Tap them 

5. Which of the following means to go through something difficult? 

a. Chop b. Broadcast c. Stir d. Endure 










The Senator and the Worm 

A rich senator lived in a big house. He had more money than anyone in his district. 
One day, he was sitting on a chair listening to a radio broadcast. As he listened to the 
news bulletin, a worm crawled from underneath the chair and onto his head. 

His cook was in the kitchen stirring some spaghetti sauce. Suddenly, a cry from the 
senator alerted him. He ran to the rear of the house where the senator was sitting. 

The cook looked and saw the worm. He tried to console the senator. “I’ll take it off 
right away,” he said. 

“No!” shouted the senator. “I want you to kill it.” 

“But it’s only a worm,” the cook said. “Why should we execute it? It hasn’t 
committed a crime.” 

The senator could not endure the worm on his head. “Hurry!” he shouted. 

The cook looked through several drawers, but found nothing. Then he ran to the 
closet and took out a pipe. He returned to the senator and lifted the pipe over his head. 
He knew he couldn’t just tap the worm. He was going to hit it hard. He grasped the pipe 
tightly. 

“What are you waiting for?” said the senator. “Kill it!” 

The cook swung the pipe at the senator’s head. 

“Oh, no,” the worm said. “He’s going to chop me in half.” It jumped off the senator’s 
head. 

There was a tremendous noise. “Owww!” cried the senator. 

A bump rose upon his skull. Meanwhile, the worm crawled outside. 

“That was close,” said the worm. “Instead of being nice, 
he wanted to hurt me. Now, that man has a big bump on 
his head.” A 






mk 


6 


< -r. I • U ' t- J 

A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The senator had a lot of money. 


2. The senator was listening to a radio broadcast. 


3. The senator wanted the cookto kill the worm. 


4. The cookfound a pipe in one of the drawers. 


5. The cook knew he was going to tap the worm. 


6. The worm was chopped in half on the senator’s head. 


WiMi’ B Answer the questions. 

1. What was the senator doing when the worm crawled onto his head? 


a. Listening to the radio 
c. Looking in the closet 

2. Which of the following did the cook NOT do? 
a. Stir some spaghetti sauce 

c. Hit the senator’s skull 

3. Why did the senator tell the cook to hurry? 
a. He was hiding in the rear of the house. 

c. He couldn’t endure the worm on his head. 


b. Watching a broadcast 
d. Consoling the cook 


b. Look through several drawers 
d. Execute the worm 


b. He knew he had to alert the cook, 
d. He had heard a tremendous noise. 


go? 

Underneath the chair 
Onto the cook’s head 


4. After the cook hit the senator, where did the worm 
a. Into the kitchen b. 

c. Outside the house d. 



" 

mm* 


rt 



abandon [sbaendan] v. 

To abandon something is to leave it forever or for a long time. 

-* The old room had been abandoned years before. 

ambitious [aembijas] adj. 

If someone is ambitious, they want to be rich or successful. 

-* Kendra had to be ambitious to get into medical school. 

bark [bark] V. 

When a dog barks, it makes a short, loud noise. 

The dog barked loudly and frighteningly. 

bay [bei] n. 

A bay is an area near the ocean where the land goes inward. 

The Golden Gate Bridge crosses San Francisco Bay. 

brilliant [briljsnt] adj. 

If someone is brilliant, they are very smart. 

My younger sister is brilliant for someone her age. 

chin [tjin] n. 

Your chin is the hard part at the bottom of your face. 

Luke pointed to the hair on his chin. 

complaint [kampleint] n. 

A complaint is something you say to tell people that you don’t like somethinj 
Mom said she didn ’t want to hear my brother’s complaints. 

deaf [def] adj. 

When someone is deaf, they cannot hear. 

-» Susan was born deaf. 

enthusiastic [eneu:ziaestik] adj. 

To be enthusiastic about something is to be excited by or interested in it. 

-* The man was enthusiastic about his job. 

expedition [ekspsdijen] n. 

An expedition is a long trip, usually to a place very far away. 

-♦ They got into their spaceship to begin their expedition. 




horizon [haraizan] n. 

The horizon is where the sky looks like it meets the ground. 

-» The sun clipped below the horizon. 

loyal [loial] adj. 

To be loyal to something or someone is to agree to always help them. 

-* The three friends are very loyal to each other. 

mayor [meiar] n. 

The mayor is the person in charge of a city. 

-» The mayor of my hometown is quite a powerful speaker. 

mutual [mju :tfual] adj. 

If something is mutual, it is felt in the same way by two or more people. 
-* Robert likes Sarah. The feeling is mutual. 

overweight [ouvarweit] adj. 

If someone is overweight, they are very fat. 

-» Roger eats too much, so now he’s overweight. 

refuge [refju dsl n. 

A refuge is a place where you go to be safe. 

-» When it started to rain, she found refuge in the house. 

restore Enst6:r] V. 

To restore something is to put it back the way it was. 

-* Victor restored the old car. 

rub [rAb] v. 

To rub something is to push on it and move your hand back and forth. 
-* Mom’s feet were sore, so she rubbed them. 

Senses [sensiz] n. 

Your senses are how you see, taste, hear, feel and smell. 

— It would be hard to live without your five senses. 

veterinarian [veterancsrian] n. 

A veterinarian is a doctor that takes care of animals. 

-» Wanda became a veterinarian because she loves dogs. 





Exe 


PMST A Choose the right word for the given definition. 

1. a doctor for animals 


2 . 

a. ambitious b. veterinarian 

to leave something 

c. mayor 

d. mutual 

3 . 

a. rub b. bark 

very smart 

c. abandon 

d. restore 

4 . 

a. loyal b. enthusiastic 

a safe place 

c. deaf 

d. brilliant 

5 . 

a. refuge b. horizon 

the bottom part of a face 

c. bay 

d. expedition 


a. complaint b. chin 

c. senses 

d. overweight 


P/aMT B Choose the right definition for the given word. 
1. 


mutual 
a. fat 
c. smart 

2 . complaint 
a. a trip 

c. a safe place 

3 . bark 

a. a part of the face 
c. a sound made by a dog 

4 . enthusiastic 

a. unable to hear 
c. to agree to do the job 

5 . mayor 

a. a town leader 
c. to put back 

6. rub 

a. to move your hand over 
c. to show displeasure 

7 . loyal 

a. to put back to the way before 
c. not able to hear 

8 . horizon 

a. very smart 

c. where the sky and earth meet 

9. restore 

a. to change to the way it used to be 
c. to agree to do the job 
10 . senses 

a. having similar ideas 

c. how one sees, hears, and smell 


b. having the same relationship with each other 
d. hardworking 

b. a statement of unhappiness 
d. where the land curves in 

b. a doctor for animals 
d. the bottom of the sky 

b. to leave behind 

d. wanting to do something very much 

b. to press back and forth 
d. the ability to see and touch 

b. the leader of a town 
d. a small inlet of water 

b. weighing too much 
d. to always help 

b. to want to be successful 
d. hard working 

b. to leave behind 
d. unable to hear 

b. to press back and forth 
d. a far-away journey 





Choose the answer that best fits the question. 


1. Where could you put a boat? 
a. On the horizon 
c. In the bay 


b. In a refuge 
d. In an expedition 


2. What would happen if you ate too much? 

a. You might become overweight. b. You would be brilliant, 

c. You could become a veterinarian. d. You might be loyal. 


3. What helps you smell things? 
a. The mayor 
c. Being deaf 


b. Your complaints 
d. Your senses 


4. Which of the following can you feel about a holiday? 
a. Mutual b. Ambitious 

c. Enthusiastic d. Abandon 


5. What do you do to improve an old house? 


a. Restore it 
c. Rub it 

6. What does it mean to be deaf? 
a. You can’t smell, 
c. You can’t hear. 


b. Bark at it 
d. Point your chin at it 


b. You are dead, 
d. You can’t feel. 


7. Which of these people goes on expeditions as part of their job? 

a. An airplane pilot b. A school teacher 

c. A police officer d. An engineer 

8. Which of the following words is most likely to be related to the horizon? 

a. Computer b. School 

c. Newspaper d. Sun 

9. Which of the following means to be rich and successful? 

a. Mayor b. Ambitious 

c. Overweight d. Loyal 

10. Which of the following means having the same feelings as someone else? 

a. Ambitious b. Enthusiastic 

c. Overweight d. Mutual 


47 





Patsy Ann 


A long time ago in Alaska, a dog named Patsy Ann watched the horizon. Every day, 
she waited by the bay for ships returning from an expedition. 

Patsy Ann was a brilliant dog, and she was very unique. She was deaf. She couldn’t 
bark, either. But she used all of her other senses to know when a ship was near. 

Patsy Ann lived on the streets. Her owners did not want her because she could 
not hear. So they abandoned her. She found refuge in a fancy hotel. Guests rubbed 
her back and scratched her chin. Many people gave her food. She became quite 
overweight. 

She became very famous. Visitors to Alaska were enthusiastic about meeting her. 
They brought presents for her. They liked seeing her and the feeling was mutual. The 
mayor said Patsy Ann should be called the town’s greeter*. 

The people in town loved Patsy Ann, too, even though she lived on the streets. They 
were willing to fight to keep her. A new law made all dogs wear a collar and get shots. 
The mayor received many complaints. People wanted Patsy Ann to be able to stay. 

One ambitious sailor got people to help. Together, they paid for Patsy Ann to go to the 
veterinarian. She got her shots and collar. She could stay. 

When Patsy Ann died, everyone missed the town’s loyal greeter. So the mayor hired 
someone to make a statue of Patsy Ann. He restored the town’s greeter. Now, she sits 
at the dock forever, waiting for ships to come home. 

*greeter - a person whose job is to say hello to new people. 



illi'UIJ lliiiittaii m 



b. Use any of her senses 
d. Find refuge 


2. What was the sailor who helped Patsy Ann? 


3. Why did Patsy Ann go to the hotel? 
a. To get a new collar 
c. To have her hearing restored 

4. Why was the dog abandoned? 
a. Because she was overweight 
c. Because she was deaf 


b. Ambitious 
d. Enthusiastic 


b. To wait for returning ships 
d. To get food 


b. Because the veterinarian didn’t like her 
d. Because she was mean to them 


49 


anniversary [a&nevavsari] n. 

An anniversary is a day that celebrates something from the past. 

-* My parents went out to eat for their wedding anniversary. 

arithmetic [s] n. 

Arithmetic is math. 

I like to study arithmetic at school. 

ashamed [ejeimd] odj. 

To be ashamed is to feel upset because you did something wrong or bad. 
He was ashamed when he found out that I knew about his past. 

burst [bsxst] v. 

To burst is to suddenly break open or apart. 

-» The bomb burst over the city. 


carpenter [kaxpantar] n. 

A carpenter is a person who builds things with wood. 

-♦ We hired a carpenter to make a cupboard. 

COal [koul] n. 

Coal is a hard black rock that you burn for heat. 

-» Many power stations bum coal to produce energy. 

COUCh [kautj] n. 

A couch is a long, soft seat that many people can sit on. 

-* Kim and Martin’s new couch was very expensive. 

drip [drip] V. 

When a liquid drips, just a little bit falls at a time. 

-* I heard water dripping from the faucet. 

elegant [eligant] adj. 

If something is elegant, it is very fancy and pleasing. 

In Japan, women wear elegant kimonos on special occasions. 

fabric [fsebnk] n . 

Fabric is cloth used to make clothes, furniture, etc. 

-* The towels were made from a soft fabric. 


highlands [hailand] n. 

The highlands are high areas of land, usually with mountains. 
The man had a small home in the highlands. 

ivory [aivari] n. 

Ivory is a white, hard substance that comes from elephants. 

-* The elephant’s long ivory tusks looked very impressive. 

mill [mil] n. 

A mill is a building where flour is made. 

-> The farmer took his wheat to the mill to make it into flour. 

needle [m:di] n. 

A needle is a small, sharp piece of metal that you use to make 
-* / used a needle to fix the hole in my pants. 

polish [paiy] v. 

To polish something is to rub it in orderto make it shiny. 

Mark spent all morning polishing his shoes for the wedding. 

sew [sou] V. 

To sew means to put pieces of cloth together using string. 

-* I learned to sew when I was a little girl. 

Shed [Jed] n. 

A shed is a small building where you store things like tools. 

We have a small shed in the backyard for storage. 

thread [ered] n. 

A thread is a thin piece of string. 

I have many different colors of thread at home. 

trim [trim] V. 

To trim something is to cut it a little bit. 

-* I had my hair trimmed this afternoon. 

upwards [Apwardz] adv. 

If something goes upwards, it moves vertically higher. 

The kite went upwards further and further. 





Choose the word that is the better fit for each blank. 

1. anniversary / elegant 

Because it was their , my father bought my mother a gift. It was an 

coat. 

2. arithmetic / upwards 

It takes a lot of to design new airplanes. You have to know how to make 

them go in the easiest way. 

3. couch / ashamed 

You should be of yourself! You know you’re not supposed to eat on the 

j 

4. burst/ dripped 

When the wind blew, the door open. And since it was raining, water 

into the room. 

5. sew / carpenter 

My brother is a , so he knows about construction. However, he doesn’t 

know how to 

6. coal / highlands 

I heard a news story about something in the . I guess they found 

underthe ground. 

7. ivory /needle 

Archeologist found made from in Africa. 

8. threads /mill 

People who work at the do many things to stay safe. For example, they 

do not have hanging from their clothing because they can get caught in 

the machinery. 

9. fabric / polish 

Bruce worked hard to the wood floors. Afterwards, he wiped the floor 

with a soft . 

10. shed /trim 

On Saturday, my dad made me clean out the . I also had to 

the bushes. 




Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. How good are you at math? 


2. There were some thin strings hanging from my shirt. 


3. I wanted to get a little hair cut off today, but I had no time to make it to the salon 


4. The doth was dirty from being outside. 


5. Smoke from the fire rose high into the air . 


6. Sometimes the dog goes inside the small building with tools when it gets cold 


7. I live in the mountainous area of the country. 


8. The old place where they m ade flour was interesting to visit. 


9. I used to p ut cloth t ogether with my grandmother. 


10. The silver was made to look shiny. 



Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. What kind of material does a carpenter work with? 

a. Plastic b. Iron c. Brick d. Wood 

2. Which ofthese things could drip? 

a. A dog b. Water c. A ball d. Dirt 

3. What could you make with a needle? 

a. A shirt b. A car c. A computer d. A chair 

4. What does it mean if your water pipes burst? 

a. They are new. b. They’ve been cleaned, 

c. They are frozen. d. They’ve exploded. 

5. Which is the same color as ivory? 

a. A needle b. A tooth c. Coal d. Wood 




The Anniversary Gift 

Joe was a carpenter. He built houses in the highlands. Joe’s wife Stella used a 
needle and thread to sew elegant clothing. She only used beautiful fabric to make 
clothes. 

Since they didn’t have a lot of money, they lived in an old shed. Water dripped in 
when it rained. They had broken chairs instead of a couch. But they had coal for heat, 
and flour from the mill for bread. Together, they trimmed the bushes to make their 
house look nice. Joe and Stella were poor, but not ashamed. They were happy. 

Sometimes in the evening, they walked downtown. They looked in store windows 
and dreamed. Stella wanted a hairbrush with an ivory handle. She pulled her hair 
upwards every day because she didn’t have a brush to make it nice. Joe wanted to fix 
his grandfather’s watch. 

For their anniversary, Stella wanted to get Joe what he wanted. But then she did the 
arithmetic. It would take at least six months to save enough money. Then she had an 
idea. She cut off all of her hair and sold it. 

Meanwhile, Joe knew that he could never fix his watch. So he polished it and sold it. 
He made enough to buy the brush. 

On their anniversary, the door burst open. Joe was excited to give Stella his gift. 

But first, Stella gave him the money to fix the watch. When he saw 
his wife without any hair, he smiled. “I sold my watch to buy 
you something,” Joe said. He gave herthe brush, and she 
laughed. They were both willing to give up something very 
special to make each other happy. 


tut 


( jjffijjTgjSl ! . \ H’St ogj 


PZMF A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Stella and Joe were ashamed of themselves. 


2. Joe was a carpenter. 


3. Stella and Joe were too poorto heat their shed with coal. 


4. Joe asked Stella to trim the bushes. 


5. Stella used a needle and thread to sew elegant things with beautiful fabric. 


6. Water dripped into their house. 


B Answer the questions. 

1. Where were the houses that Joe worked on : 


a. Nearthe mill 

c. On an elegant street 


b. In the shed 
d. In the highlands 


2. What did Joe do with his watch? 

a. Hit it with his hammer 

c. Left it in the shed 


b. Lifted it upward to see it 
d. Polished it and sold it 


3. What did Stella make? 
a. Elegant clothing 
c. Couches 


b. Ivory hairbrushes 

d. Anything for herself 


4. What did Stella do for Joe on their anniversary? 

a. Sold her hair b. Combed her hair 

c. Made him a shirt d. Bought him a gold watch 


;s 




mercy [nwsi] n. 

If you show mercy, you choose not to punish or harm someone. 

-► He asked his boss for mercy and to not fire him. 

nod [nad] v. 

To nod is to move your head up and down. 

— I nodded my head as I listened to the song. 

opponent [apounant] n. 

An opponent is someone who fights against you. 

— On the field, our opponents were too good for us. 

quarrel [kwo:ral] v. 

To quarrel is to argue or fight. 

Billy quarreled with his wife about buying a new house. 

rival [raival] n. 

A rival is someone that is trying to keep you from getting what you want. 
The three rivals were all competing for the same job. 

SOre [so:/-] adj. 

When a part of your body is sore, it hurts. 

— After lifting the heavy box, Mona’s back was sore. 

Sting [stinl v. 

To sting is to cause pain by pushing a sharp part into the skin. 

-* The needle stung my arm and made me say, “Ouch!” 

Strain [strein] v. 

To strain is to try very hard. 

-> Casey strained to lift the heavy box. 

torture [tortja;r] n. 

Torture is something that causes you physical or mental pain. 

-» Greg thought that writing the essay was torture. 

wrestle [resal] y. 

To wrestle is to play a game where you try to push someone to the floor. 
-> My dad loved to wrestle when he was in high school. 


e 


PZ^HD 1 A Choose the word for the given definition. 

1. someone who helps you 

a. bully b. ally c. bounce 

2. to move your head up and down 

a. wrestle b. strain c. nod 

3. to move on your hands and knees 

a. crawl b. boast c. torture 

4. to move something up and away after hitting it 

a. sore b. sting c. defeat 

5. to cause difficulty or pain 

a. rival b. ail c. whistle 


d. quarrel 


d. defeat 


d. mercy 


d. bounce 


d. carbohydrate 


GMS'D’ B Choose the right definition for the given word. 


8. 


boast 

a. to go on your hands 

c. to move you head 

dominant 

a. to be hurt 

c. stronger 

defeat 

a. to feel tired 
c. to beat 
mercy 

a. someone on the other side 
c. to not give punishment 
carbohydrate 
a. to win 

c. to cause an injury 
quarrel 

a. an argument 
c. to move your head 
strain 

a. to try very hard 
c. stronger 
rival 

a. to move the head up and down 

c. food 

wrestle 

a. someone on the other side 

c. to be hurt 

sore 

a. not giving another punishment 
c. to cause an injury 


b. to be mean to people 
d. to talk about yourself 

b. a friend 
d. a fight 

b. to try hard 
d. a face 

b. to push to the ground 
d. to feel terrible 

b. to move off of something 
d. food 

b. a face of a clock 
d. to talk about yourself 

b. a friend 

d. to move something up and away 
b. to try hard 

d. one who keeps another from getting sometj 

b. to push to the ground 
d. to feel terrible 

b. to be hurt 
d. to move on the floor 






Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. Carol is always talking about how good she is to other people. 


2. lerry is a perso n wh o enjoys being mea n to classmates. 


3. Foods like bread and rice give you a lot of energy for an active lifestyle. 


4. We were all sad after our team was beaten in th e game . 


5. I was caused pain by a sharp point as I was walking through the grass barefoot. 


6. Look at the numbers on the clock face to see what time it is. 


7. If you can’t speak, then move y our head up and down for yes and no. 


8. The per son who was fighti ng ag ainst me tried to catch me offguard. 


9. I tried very har d to lift the heavy boxes from the desk. 


10. Sitting through his long, boring speech was a ho rrible mental pain . 





Dalton vs. the Bully 

Dalton was a nice boy, but sometimes the other boys made fun of him because 
he was so tall and skinny. Dalton’s biggest problem was Mitch. He was a bully who 
boasted about his strength. He quarreled with the other boys. Sometimes, if boys gave 
Mitch their lunch money, he would have mercy and leave them alone. 

One day, the boys learned about a special Middle School Olympics. Their gym 
class was going to be in it. Many kids were excited. But Dalton thought it sounded like 
torture. 

That morning, Dalton ate plenty of carbohydrates for breakfast. He entered the gym 
and looked at the dial on the clock. It was time to begin. The teacher asked if they were 
ready. Everyone nodded, except Dalton. 

“I got stung by a bee. I need to see the nurse.” said Dalton. He made it up so he 
wouldn’t have to play. 

“I don’t believe you. Get ready to play,” responded the coach. 

First, they wrestled. Then they jumped, crawled and played other games. But Mitch 
was dominant in every event. 

They strained all morning to defeat him. By lunch, they were sore. Their entire 
bodies ailed them. They thought about how to win. They knew the last game of the day 
was volleyball. Kids who used to be Dalton’s rivals became his allies. They wanted him 
to help them beat Mitch. Dalton was going to be Mitch’s opponent. 

The game started. Every time Mitch tried to hit the ball over the net, Dalton stopped 
it. Finally, Mitch used all of his strength. But the ball bounced off Dalton’s hands and 
back into Mitch’s face! Finally Mitch was defeated. 



KUH'D' A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Mitch was a bully. 


2. Everyone was nice to Dalton. 


3. Dalton became ailed when a bee stung him. 


4, Dalton’s biggest problem was being tall. 


5. When they wrestled, Mitch was dominant. 


6, The boys felt sore at lunchtime. 


KiR'D’ B Answer the questions. 


1, Which of the following was NOT part of their Olympics? 

a. Wrestling b. Volleyball 

c. Crawling d. Speed skating 

2. What did boys give Mitch so he would have mercy on them? 

a. A dial b. Money 

c. A whistle d. Carbohydrates 


3, Where did the Olympics happen? 
a. In the gym 
c. At their rival’s field 


b. At the bully’s school 
d. At Dalton’s house 


4. What did the boys want to do to Mitch? 
a. Be his opponent 
c. Defeat him 


b. Show him mercy 
d. Strain against him 




absence [aebsans] n. 

Absence is the state of something being away. 

There is an absence of sand in the hourglass. 

aloud [alaud] adv. 

If you say something aloud, you say it so that others can hearyou. 

My father often reads stories aloud to me and my sister. 

bald [bo:ld] adj. 

If someone is bald, they have no hair. 

-* My oldest brother is bald. 

blanket [bierjkit] n. 

A blanket is a piece of cloth that you use to keep warm or to sit upon. 
-» I laid a blanket on the ground so that we could have a picnic. 

creep [kitp] v . 

To creep is to move quietly and slowly. 

-> The cat slowly crept down the tree. 

divorce [divbxs] n. 

Divorce is an event in which a marriage is ended. 

-* Divorce rates have increased in the past twenty years. 

imitate [fmiteit] v. 

To imitate someone is to do exactly what they do. 

-» He imitated his favorite superhero by putting on a costume. 

infant [infant] n. 

An infant is a baby. 

-♦ The infant cried all night. 

kidnap [kidnasp] v. 

To kidnap someone is to take them illegally. 

-» She was terrified to find out her son was kidnapped. 

nap [naep] n. 

A nap is a short sleep, usually during the day. 

/ took a short nap because I stayed up late last night. 




nowhere [n6u/7w£8:r] adv. 

You use nowhere to say that a place or thing does not exist. 
Unfortunately , water was nowhere to be found. 

pat [paet] v. 

To pat something is to hit it softly with your hand. 

-♦ / patted some lotion onto my face. 

relief [riii:f] n. 

Relief is a feeling you get when something bad or challenging ends. 

-» / felt a sense of relief when I heard the good news. 

reproduce [ri:pr9d/u:s] v. 

To reproduce is to make something exactly how someone else did it. 
The children tried to reproduce their house using toy blocks. 

rhyme [raim] n. 

To rhyme is to have the same sounds at the end of a word. 

-* Humpty Dumpty is an old rhyme that children learn in school. 

SUCk [sAk] v. 

To suck is to put something in your mouth and try to get flavor out of it. 
-» The baby sucked milk from her bottle. 

urgent [0:rd30nt] adj. 

If something is urgent, it is important and needs to be done now. 

He had to leave now; it was urgent. 

vanish [vaenij] V. 

To vanish is to go away suddenly. 

-* All the passengers vanished from the train station. 

Wagon [waegan] n. 

A wagon is a cart you use to carry heavy things. 

He used his wagon to carry some of his gifts. 

wrinkle [rinksi] n. 

A wrinkle is a line on a person’s face that happens as they get old. 

-» My grandfather has some wrinkles on his face. 






Choose the right word for the given definition. 

1. not having any hair 

a. bald b. urgent c. absence 

2. a good feeling when something bad goes away 

a. divorce b. pat c. roar 

3. to put something in your mouth and get flavor from it 


4. 


a. wrinkle b. suck 

c. rhyme 

to act like someone else 


a. suck b. aloud 

c. creep 

to go away suddenly 


a. blanket b. kidnap 

c. vanish 


Exe 







Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. What is it called when you don’t have something? 

a. A nap b. An absence c. A divorce d. A pat 

2. This is another name for a baby. 

a. Vanish b. Suck c. Creep d. Infant 

3. What could you use to carry wood? 

a. A wagon b. An infant c. A wrinkle d. A blanket 

4. Which of the following actions is a crime? 

a. To rhyme b. To kidnap c. To reproduce d. To pat 

5. What is the following an example of: “The cat and bat sat in a hat”? 

a. Bald b. Urgent c. Aloud d. Rhyme 

6. Which of the following could be urgent? 

a. A soccer game b. An emergency phone call 

c. A trip to the park d. A birthday party 

7. What happens when a couple gets divorced? 


a. They vanish. 

c. Their pets are taken away. 

8. How would you creep? 

a. Angrily b. Loudly 

9. Which of the following would you pat? 

a. A fish b. A sock 

10 . What could come from nowhere? 

a. An idea b. A day 


b. They’re not married anymore, 
d. They copy others. 


c. Quickly 
c. A dog 
c. A house 


d. Slowly 


d. A table 


d. A new year 








Choose the word that is the better fit for each blank. 

1. aloud / nowhere 

I asked my mom where she was going. She told me she was going 


2. infant / wrinkles 

The has perfect skin without any scars or _ 


3. absence / divorced 

After my parents got _ 
the house. 

4. urgent / reproduce 

My boss asked me to . 


I was sad about my dad’s . 


around 


the image for her customers. She said it was very 


5. sucked / patted 

After I fell, I 


on my finger where I cut it. Then my mom 


me 


on the back and told me to get up. 
6. bald / rhymes 


The 


man on television entertained viewers by saying. 


7. crept / vanished 

Manuel’s mom thought he had 
under his bed. 


8. wagon / kidnap 

I was scared when my big sister left me in the 
would me. 


but in reality he had just . 


. I was afraid someone 


9. nap / relief 

Itwassucha 


to be finished with the long exam. I was so tired afterward 


that I needed to take a 


10. imitating / blanket 

Nellie wrapped a 


around her and made funny sounds. She was 


a ghost. 





Anna the Babysitter 

Since her parents got a divorce, Anna has had to help her mother. In her mother’s 
absence, Anna takes care of Grace, the baby. At first, Anna thought it was an easy job. 

One afternoon, Anna played with Grace. She meowed like a cat and Grace imitated 
her. In fact, Grace reproduced every sound that Anna made. She took her sister outside. 
She put Grace in the wagon, but there was nowhere for them to go. So they went back 
inside. 

Anna put the infant on the floor and went into her room. But when she came back, 
Grace had vanished! Anna looked everywhere, but she could not find her sister. Maybe 
the baby had been kidnapped! “Where are you?” Anna called aloud. 

The situation was becoming urgent. She wanted to call her mom, but she didn’t 
want her to think Anna couldn’t do the job. Anna sat down. What was she going to do? 

But then, Anna heard something. It was coming from her room. “Grace?” She got 
down on her knees and looked underthe bed. She could see Grace’s bald head. Grace 
had followed Anna into her room and crept under the bed. 

“What a relief!” Anna cried. 

She picked up her sister and patted her on the head. Her head was 
soft and had no wrinkles. Grace was sucking on her thumb and looked 
tired. So, Anna wrapped her in a blanket and sang rhymes for her. 

Then she put Grace in bed for a nap. 

After that afternoon, Anna knew that taking care of Grace was 
not an easy job. It takes a lot of work to take care of a baby! 






iCS? A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

_ Anna took care of Grace in her mother’s absence because her parents got a 
divorce. 


2. Grace had a lot of hair and wrinkles. 


3, Anna imitated a cat, and Grace reproduced the sounds she made. 


4. Anna had nowhere to go with the wagon. 


5. When Anna came back from her room, she found that the infant had been 

kidnapped. 


6. Anna sang rhymes for Grace to try to find her more quickly. 


mMI B Answer the questions. 

1. What did Anna feel when she finally found Grace? 

a. Sleepy b. Urgent 

c. Relief d. Pleasant 


2. How did Grace get underthe bed? 
a. She crept there, 
c. She was kidnapped. 


b. Anna put herthere for her nap. 
d. Anna carried her in the blanket. 


, Which is NOT something Anna did with Grace? 
a. Go outside in the wagon b. Pat heron the head 

c. Read a book aloud d. Sing her rhymes 

4. Why did Anna wrap Grace in a blanket? 

a. So she would not cry b. So she could pat her 

c. So she could take a nap d. To keep herfrom sucking herthumb 



abnormal [aebnoTmsI] adj. 

If something is abnormal, it is strange or not normal. 
-* Her idea of art is a bit too abnormal for me. 



bamboo [baembu:' 

Bamboo is a hard plant with thin branches and leaves. 

-♦ Outside his home, there is a lot of bamboo. 

blossom [blas0m] n. 

A blossom is a flower or group of flowers. 

There were colorful blossoms in the yard. 

COmpaSS [kAmpss] n. 

A compass is a device used to tell what direction one is going. 

A compass is an important tool to have when you are traveling. 

dialect [daislekt] n. 

A dialect is a regional variety of language showing where you are from. 

-* People from the U.K. have a different dialect of English from those in the 

dishonest [disanist] adj. 

If someone is dishonest, they do not tell the truth. 

-* She was being dishonest when she copied the answers from his test. 

dwarf [dwo:rf] n. 

A dwarf is a creature from stories that often looks like a short, hairy man. 

-* The dwarf had a pleasant look on his face. 

ecosystem [kkousistem] n. 

An ecosystem is a group of plants and animals in an area. 

The river’s ecosystem not only includes fish but other insects and plants ^ 

fatal [feitl] adj. 

If something is fatal, it causes death. 

-♦ They passed away in a fatal car crash. 

impatient [impeijent] adj. 

If someone is impatient, they are not able to wait for things. 

Bob was so impatient that he could barely wait for the light to turn green. 



leaf [li:f] n. 

A leaf is the flat green thing on trees or bushes. 

-» In the foil, the leaves on the trees change colors. 

manuscript [masnjaskript] n. 

A manuscript is an old book or paper written by hand. 

— The manuscript was written over 1 50 years ago. 

marsh [mar|] n. 

A marsh is a type of wet land covered with grasses and short plants. 

-* The marsh looked so lovely against the mountains. 

patience [peifsns] n. 

Patience is the ability to wait for something without becoming upset. 

-> Sue’s patience was rewarded by catching her very first fish. 

perfume [parfju:m] n. 

Perfume is a good-smelling liquid that girls wear. 

-* When she wore her perfume, everyone said she smelled great. 

pond [pand] n. 

A pond is a very small area of water. 

The ducks swam in the pond. 

proverb [pravaxb] n. 

A proverb is a short saying that tells you something important. 

The proverb “egg on your face” means you’ve done something embarrassing. 

pursuit [psrsu t] n. 

A pursuit is a chase. 

-» The dinosaur was in pursuit of the caveman. 

recite [nsait] v. 

To recite something means to repeat or say aloud in front of a group. 

Katie recited the Pledge of Allegiance in class. 

wilderness [wildaxnis] n. 

A wilderness is an area where no people live. 

-*• If you are not careful, you can get lost in the wilderness. 


Exe 


e 


A Choose the right word for the given definition. 

1. to speak openly 



a. abnormal b. compass 

c. recite 

d. pursuit 

2 . 

capable of causing death 




a. wilderness b. fatal 

c. impatient 

d. blossom 

3 . 

a group of living things 




a. ecosystem b. manuscript 

c. dwarf 

d. bamboo 

4 . 

the ability to wait without getting upset 




a. proverb b. marsh 

c. patience 

d. abnormal 

5 . 

a very short character in stories 




a. leaf b. dialect 

d. recite 

d. dwarf 

PZABTf 3 B Choose the right definition for the given word. 

l. 

manuscript 




a. grass with thin branches 

b. an area not settled by people 


c. being able to wait 

d. an old book 


2 . 

proverb 




a. a short saying 

b. a device used to tell direction 


c. a small area of water 

d. to say something aloud 

3 . 

pursuit 




a. a chase b. not normal 

c. a book 

d. speaking 

4 . 

dialect 




a. can cause death 

b. a different way of speaking 


c. a flat green thing 

d. a creature from stories 

5 . 

marsh 




a. flowers b. wet land 

c. lies 

d. livingthings 



Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. What would you call some place where no one lives? 

a. Fatal b. Abnormal c. Wilderness d. Dishonest 

2 . Where would you most likely find a fish? 

a. In a pond b. On a leaf c. In the wilderness d. On some bamboo 

3 . People use flowers to . 

a. be a dwarf b. make perfume c. recite a song d. read a manuscript 

A. What would someone sailing in the ocean use to know which way they were going? 

a. An ecosystem b. Patience c. A dialect d. A compass 

5 . Which of the following is a part of a plant? 

a. A blossom b. A marsh c. A proverb d. A pursuit 





Choose the word that is a better fit for each blank. 

1. ecosystem / pond 

Frogs are an important part of the . especially around a(n) . 

2. dialect / recited 

When he the poem in front the class, they could not understand him 

because he spoke with a different . 

3. abnormal/ dwarf 

They had never seen anything as as this creature. It looked and dressed 

I like a man, but the was short and had a long nose. 

4. impatient / manuscript 

| The was so old that the words were hard to read. Though she tried to 

read it, she soon became and put the old book away. 

5. patience / proverbs 

Many try to teach lessons about human qualities such as honesty and 


6. marsh / pursuit 

I The through the was very difficult because the ground 

was too wet to stand on. 

7, blossom / perfume 

She crushed the and mixed it with some water so she could make the 


8. dishonest / fatal 

The label on the bottle was . It said that the powder didn’t hurt children 

I when it was actually for them to consume. 

9. bamboo / leaves 

The that grow on the are thick and hard to chew. 

10. compass / wilderness 

Because it is easy to lose your way in the , it’s a good idea to bring a 

I with you. 




Peter and the Dwarf 

Peter was a hunter. One day, he was in pursuit of a deer and became lost. He usually 
carried a compass with him when he went into the wilderness, but that day he left it at 
home. 

As he walked, the forest began to look different. He didn’t see any bamboo. Instead, 
there were bushes with long leaves. The ecosystem was now very abnormal. Peter knew 
he was in the Magic Marsh. 

Now he was tired and thirsty. He was afraid. Being lost in the marsh could be fatal. 
When people entered it, they never came out. 

At last, he found a pond. Flowers grew around it. The blossoms smelled like the best 
perfume. He felt relaxed so he drank some water and fell asleep. When he awoke, he 
saw an evil dwarf staring at him. 

“What are you doing here?” it asked. The dwarf spoke in a strange dialect. 

“I’m lost,” said Peter. “Can you help me?” 

“Yes,” it said, but Peter didn’t know it was dishonest. 

The dwarf took an old manuscript from his pocket. It was a magic map. “Just recite 
the words at the bottom,” the dwarf explained. “It will show you how to get home.” 

“Good,” Peter said. He was impatient and quickly grabbed the map. 

He recited the magic words, and a line appeared on the map. He walked for many 
days but never left the marsh. Finally, the map led him back to the pond. He walked in a 
circle! 

The dwarf was still there. “Here’s a proverb for you to think about,” it said, “When 
patience is lost, then so are you.” 



P/MT A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Peter left his compass at home. 


2. When people entered the Magic Marsh, they always came out. 


3. Peter ate some flowers and fell asleep. 


4, The dwarf spoke with a strange dialect. 


5. Peter knew the dwarf was dishonest. 


6, The map led Peter back to the pond. 


B Answer the questions. 

1, Why was Peter in the wilderness? 

a. He was in pursuit of a deer. b. He was weak and hungry, 

c. He was looking for the Magic Marsh, d. He was lost. 

2, How did Peter know he was in the Magic Marsh? 

a. There was a lot of bamboo. b. There were no leaves, 

c. The ecosystem was abnormal. d. He smelled blossoms. 

3, What did the dwarf have that could help Peter escape the marsh? 

a. A bottle of perfume b. A magic manuscript 

c. A compass d. Patience 


4. Why was Peter afraid of the Magic Marsh? 

a. He was impatient. b. Being lost there could be fatal, 

c. He was tired and thirsty. d. There was an evil dwarf in it. 


L 


UNIT 




Word List 


•••••••••• 


- 




anticipate [aentisepeit] v. 

To anticipate something is to think that it will happen. 

-» Carrie anticipated the arrival of her baby. 

barrel [baerel] n. 

A barrel is a round thing that you can keep liquids in. 

-* There was an empty barrel outside the house. 

beam [t>i:m] n. 

A beam is a heavy bar. 

— Modem skyscrapers are made with several beams. 

Casual [kae3ual] adf. 

If something is casual, it is relaxed orsimple. 

-» You can wear casual clothes to the party like jeans. 

caution [kojan] n. 

Caution is care and attention in order to avoid danger. 

— Please use the powersaw with caution. It is very dangerous. 

contrary [kdntreri] adj. 

If something is contrary to something else, it is the opposite. 
-* It isn’t warm outside at all. On the contrary, it is quite cold. 

deliberate [diliberit] adj. 

If you are deliberate, you do something on purpose. 

-* Bernie made a deliberate attempt to injure Andy. 

dissolve [dizaiv] v. 

To dissolve something is to mix it into a liquid and disappear. 
-* I dissolved the pill in a glass of water. 

explode [iksploud] v. 

When something explodes, it blows up. 

My new radio exploded when I plugged it in. 

fasten [fesn] v. 

To fasten something is to close it or put it in the correct place. 
-* Elizabeth fastened her seat belt. 








germ [0)39 :rm] n. 

A germ is something that makes you sick. 

— Germs are on everything that you touch. 

kit [kit] n. 

A kit is a set of all the things needed to do something. 

-» Is there a first aid kit in your office? 

puff [pAf] n. 

A puff is a little bit of smoke or steam. 

-* A puff of smoke came from the burnt match. 

rag [raeg] n. 

A rag is a small towel. 

-* Please use a rag to clean the dust off the table. 

scatter [skated * 

To scatter something is to make it go in many places. 

-* / accidentally scattered all of my pills. 

scent [sent] n. 

A scent is a smell. 

-* Julie enjoyed the scent of the flowers. 

Steel [sti:l] n. 

Steel is a shiny gray metal. 

-* The new apartment building was made with steel. 

swift [swift] adj. 

If something is swift, it is fast. 

The swift horse easily jumped over the hurdle. 

tOSS [to:s] v. 

If you toss something, you throw it softly. 

-* He tossed a coin into the air. 

triumph [traiemf] n. 

Triumph is what you feel when you win or finish something. 
-» He raised the award in triumph at the end of his speech. 




PAR'D 3 A Choose the right definition for the given word. 


1 . 

anticipate 
a. to win 

b. to wait for 

c. 

2. 

kit 




a. something that makes you sick 

b. 


c. a round container 

d. 

3. 

steel 

a. a large bar 

b. a small towel 

c. 

4. 

contrary 
a. careful 

b. not fancy 

c. 

5. 

toss 

a. to throw 

b. small amount 

c. 

6. 

triumph 
a. to win 


b. 


c. to lock something in place 

d. 

7. 

scatter 




a. something that makes you sick 

b. 


c. to expect something 

d. 

8 . 

casual 

a. a large bar 

b. the opposite 

c. 

9. 

rag 

a. careful 

b. a small towel 

c. 

10. 

beam 

a. to throw 

b. small amount 

c. 


to blow up d. to go everywhere 

set of things needed to do something 
to disappear in liquid 

shiny metal d. a smell 

fast d. opposite 

to be careful d. to lock down 

a round container 
careful 

metal 

to go in many places 
relaxed or simple d. smoke 
on purpose d. to disappear in water 
to smell d. a heavy metal bar 


PAR'D 3 B Choose the right word for the given definition. 


a round container 
a. scent b. kit 

c. beam 

d. barrel 

on purpose 

a. deliberate b. casual 

c. swift 

d. contrary 

something that makes you sick 
a. puff b. rag 

c. germs 

d. triumph 

to lock something in place 
a. anticipate b. fasten 

c. scatter 

d. explode 

to mix in a liquid and disappear 
a. caution b. toss 

c. dissolve 

d. steel 







Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. When the house burned, a large heavy bar fell from the ceiling. 


2. Joshua smiled in great emotion and feeling after he got a good grade on his science 
test. 


3. She walked on the ice with care so she wouldn’t fall. 


4. It was scary when the car blew up . but luckily no one was hurt. 


5. I used a small towel from the sink to clean up the milk I spilled. 


6. The basketball player was fast and stole the ball. 


7. You can wear relaxed and simple clothes to the school. 


8. I really like the smell of this candle. 


9. My cat made her food go in many places . 


10. When we lit the fire, a little smoke came out of the chimney. 



The Ice Cream Cone Explosion 

One day, John walked to his uncle’s ice cream shop. When he reached the sidewalk, 
he caught the scent of ice cream cones and anticipated eating some ice cream. 

Sam opened the door. Uncle John had a new, steel machine. “What is that?” 

“It’s a cone maker. I built it from a kit. You take flour from the barrel and put it in 
this pan,” Uncle John said. “Then add water and sugar here and stir it so the sugar 
dissolves. Next, you fasten down the beam.” Uncle John wanted to look casual, but he 
was excited. He made a few swift motions and turned it on. There was a puff of smoke, 
and then cones came out the other end. 

“Is it hard to use? Sam asked. 

“On the contrary. It’s easy to use. Want to try?” 

Sam washed his hands with caution. He made a deliberate attempt to keep germs 
out of the dough. Soon, Sam had his first cone. He smiled in triumph! 

Uncle John tried to turn the machine off, but it just kept making cones. Sam and 
Uncle John put them on the counter, then on chairs. Before long, cones scattered all 


over the floor. 

They tried everything to stop it, but it wouldn’t stop! 
“What are we going to do?” he said. 

“Kick it!” yelled Sam. Uncle John lifted his foot and 
gave the machine a kick. It made a funny noise and 
exploded. They were both covered with dough*. 

Uncle John laughed when he knew Sam was OK. He 
tossed Sam a rag to clean his face and smiled. “I 
guess we have enough cones now!” 






f 


A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

_ Unde John tried to look casual. 


2 . Uncle John kicked the machine. 


3 . You have to fasten the dough on the machine. 


rt. Sam washed the germs off the machine with caution. 


( 5 . Uncle John had enough cones for the day. 


6. Sam walked to the ice cream shop. 


W B 


Answer the questions. 


1. Why did Uncle John toss a rag to Sam? 
a. To clean the floor 

c. To clean his face 

2. What did Sam anticipate? 
a. Going to the shop 

c. Working with his uncle 

3. What did the machine do? 
a. Break the barrel 

c. Scatter dough 


b. To dissolve the sugar 
d. To clean the steel 


b. Getting an ice cream cone 
d. The machine exploding 

b. Give a bad scent 
d. Give a puff of smoke 


4. What did Uncle John say about the machine? 

a. It’s easy to use. b. It was swift, 

c. It was deliberate. d. It was contrary. 




aboard [aboTd] prep. 

When someone is aboard a ship or plane, they are on or in it. 

-> They climbed aboard the kayak and paddled through the river. 

bitter [bits/-] adj. 

When a person is bitter, they are upset with someone or a situation. 
-* He was extremely bitter when his computer crashed. 

bllllet [bulit] n. 

A bullet is a small metal object that is shot out of guns. 

— Bullets come in different sizes for different guns. 

devil [devl] n. 

The devil is a powerful evil spirit in some religions. 

-» The church promised protection from the devil. 

drift [drift] v. 

To drift means to be moved slowly by wind or water. 

-* The large chunk of ice drifted in the water. 

enforce [enfors] v. 

To enforce means to make a person follow a rule. 

-* Police enforce traffic laws to keep everyone safe. 

fountain [fauntin] n. 

A fountain is a source of water made by people. 

There was a beautiful fountain in the middle of the park. 

harbor [haxbar] n. 

A harbor is an area of water along a shore where boats land. 

There were a few small boats in the harbor. 

inhabit [inhaebit] v. 

To inhabit means to live in a certain place. 

No one inhabits the ancient city. 

march [mart]] V. 

To march means to walk at a steady pace together with others. 

-*• The soldiers marched in straight rows. 




millionaire imiijanear] n . 

A millionaire is a person who has at least a million dollars. 

-* He became a millionaire because he was smart with his money. 

port [port} n. 

A port is a place where ships stop to load and unload things. 

The ship was being loaded with materials at the port. 

sheriff Uerifl n . 

A sheriff is a police officer who is in charge of a large area. 

— It was the sheriff’s job to make the city safe. 

startle isw:rti] * 

To startle means to scare someone suddenly. 

-* The loud crash startled the sleeping woman. 

Sweat [swetl v. 

To sweat means to lose liquid from the body through the skin. 

-» Whenever I workout, I sweat quite a bit. 

trigger [trigex] n. 

A trigger is the part of the gun that a person pulls to make it fire. 

The man had his finger on the trigger of the gun. 

unify [ju;nafai] v. 

To unify means to bring people or things together. 

— With their good deeds, the children tried to unify the world. 

vessel [vesal] n. 

A vessel is a large ship or boat. 

We toured the area aboard a luxury vessel. 

voyage [void 3 ] n. 

A voyage is a long journey made on a boat or an aircraft. 

-» The astronauts took off on a long voyage to the moon. 

worship [we:/fipj v. 

To worship means to like and honor a person, thing, or religious figure. 
-* Many people around the world worship in a church. 



Choose the word that is a better fit for each blank. 

1. voyage / vessel 

We cannot go on our because there are too many passengers on the 

small . 

2. aboard / port 

The ship entered the , and boxes of supplies were put . 

3. sheriff / sweat 

The criminal’s shirt was soaked with because he had been running 

from the . 

4. millionaire / fountain 

The flew his private jet across the world to visit a new that 

was said to bring people luck. 

5. worship / harbor 

Churches many people that want a safe, quiet place to . 

6. enforce / inhabit 

Criminals a prison, and the guards the rules. 

7. bullets / trigger 

The criminal pulled the of the gun, but it had no . 

8. unify /march 

To the new soldiers, the officer had them together for an 

hour. 

9. startle / devil 

I’m going to my friends when I show up to the costume party dressed 

as a . 

10. bitter /drift 

The boy will be quite if you let his kite away. 




r ¥ UT 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. I will go on a long journey to lapan this spring. 


2. I was on a plane headed to South America . 


3. The part of a gun th at you pull to make it fire broke off the old gun. 


4. The pol ice officer in charge of a large area arrested the criminal who robbed the bank. 


5. There is a beautiful water source at the shopping mall. 


6. My brother likes to hide in the closet and suddenly scare me. 


7. The president wants to bring together the people of her country. 


8. We sailed the boat into the area where the boats are supposed to land. 


9. I hope a bear doesn’t live in this cave! 


10. The evil spirit made me commit the horrible crime. 



e 3 


Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. Which of the following can afford very expensive things? 

a. A sheriff b. A trigger c. A millionaire d. A devil 

2. How would a person feel if they were upset about a situation? 

a. Bitter b. Aboard 

3. Where can many sailors be found? 

a. With a bullet b. On a vessel 

4. What does a toy boat do on water? 

a. Worship b. Drift 

5. What do people do in the army? 

a. Harbor b. Voyage 


c. Startled 


c. In a fountain 


c. Inhabit 


c. March 


d. Unified 


d. In a sweat 


d. Enforce 


d. Port 






m 

M 


Sheriff Dan 


Dan was the evil sheriff of Oceantown. Dan was as cruel as the devil. He worshipped 
money. Dan was a millionaire, but he paid his police officers almost nothing. The police 
were very bitter, but Dan didn’t care. He only cared about his money. 

Every person who inhabited Oceantown disliked him. Dan enforced cruel laws. Once, 
Dan even put his own brother in jail for throwing a coin into a fountain! Sometimes he 
pointed his gun into the air and pulled the trigger. He didn’t want the bullets to hit 
anyone. He just wanted to scare people with the loud sound. 

Finally, the people of Oceantown decided that they had to get rid of Sheriff Dan. With 
their understanding, the crowd sought to unify the town. They marched to Dan’s house. 
He was startled by the sight when he ran to the door. When he opened the door, the 
crowd jumped on him. They used a rope to tie him to a chair. Dan yelled, “Get your 
hands off of me! I’ll put you all in jail for the rest of your lives!” 

The crowd didn’t listen. They carried Dan to the harbor and put him aboard a vessel. 
Dan was so scared that he began to sweat. He begged, “If you let me go, I will give you 
all my money!” 

The crowd said back, “Sheriff, we don’t care about your money. We know you will 
never change. We’re sending you on a voyage to the middle 
of the ocean.” The boat drifted out of the port, and Dan 
was never seen again. The people voted for a new sheriff 
H. who was kind and fair. 


I 


f 




— NiS 1 




B*\ 




84 




[MUff A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The sheriff enforced cruel laws. 





2. Dan pulled the trigger on his gun and shot bullets in the airto scare away 

criminals. 


3. With their understanding, the crowd sought to unify the town. 


4. Dan’s police officers were paid almost nothing. 


5. Dan was sent on a voyage around the world. 


6. Every person who inhabited Oceantown worshipped Dan. 


BCMF B Answer the questions. 

1. Where did the crowd take Dan? 

a. To the streets 

c. To Dan’s house 

2. Atthe end of the reading, Dan 

a. became fair and kind 

c. was never seen again 

3. Why did Dan put his brother in jail? 
a. He broke a fair law. 

c. He startled Dan. 


b. To the harbor 
d. To the jail 


b. drifted into another port 
d. made Oceantown happy 

b. He tied Dan to a chair. 

d. He tossed a coin in a fountain. 


4. According to the reading, why did the crowd send Dan away? 

a. The police were bitter towards Dan. b. They wanted Dan’s money, 

c. Dan was a devil to them. d. They hated millionaires. 


85 









I 


;a. 

'wr 


> 






apprentice [aprentis] n. 

An apprentice is a person who learns how to do a job from a skilled person, 
Mark is an apprentice chef at the restaurant. 

assure fejuad v . 

To assure someone is to tell them something is true to make them less worri| 
He assured the boss that the building would be done on time. 

bandage [baendid3] n. 

A bandage is a piece of cloth used to stop bleeding. 

-» If you cut yourself, please get a bandage from the first-aid kit. 

bleed ibicd] v. 

To bleed is to lose blood. 

-* If you are not careful, you will cut your finger and bleed. 

bond [bond] K 

To bond with someone is to become friends with them. 

-» The women bonded after several hours of conversation. 

Chef [Jef] n. 

A chef is a person who cooks in a restaurant. 

-» Tom is a chef at the restaurant near my house. 

Crown [kraun] n. 

A crown is the hat worn by a king or queen. 

-♦ The crown is made of gold. 

departure [d i pa : rtfer] n. 

A departure is the act of leaving a place. 

They were excited about their departure back home. 

diligent [dilad3ant] adj. 

If someone is diligent, they work hard and are careful. 

-* Craig has always been a very diligent person at work. 

emperor [empara/-] n. 

An emperor is the leader of a group of countries. 

-♦ The emperor Julius Caesar was in control of ancient Rome. 


fiber [faibar] n. 

Fiber is a thread of a substance used to make clothes or rope. 

The mat was made from tiny fibers. 

horrible [h5:rabal] adj. 

If something is horrible, it is very bad. 

The assignment was horrible. I hated it. 

impolite [impalait] adj. 

If someone is impolite, they are rude. 

— Roger is impolite to everyone he meets. 

kneel [m i] * 

To kneel is to put one or both knees on the ground. 

-> Daryl got down on one knee and asked Nina to marry him. 

luxury [lAkJsri] n. 

A luxury is an expensive thing that you do not need. 

-* We stayed at a luxury resort for our honeymoon. 

massive [maasiv] adj. 

If something is massive, it is very big. 

-> The wheels on his truck were massive. 

panic [psenik] v. 

To panic is to feel so nervous or afraid that you cannot think clearly. 
Everyone panicked when the house caught on fire. 

priority [praio(:)rati] n. 

A priority is something that is more important than other things. 

My priority is to get good grades in school. 

robe [roub] n. 

A robe is a long, loose piece of clothing. 

-* Many people wear robes in the morning. 

SCOld [skould] v. 

To scold means to criticize one angrily because they have done wrong. 
-» jesse was scolded by the teacher for not paying attention. 




Choose the right word for the given definition. 


1. 

hardworking 




a. diligent b. massive 

c. horrible 

d. impolite 

2. 

to lose control because of stress 




a. bleed b. kneel 

c. panic 

d. bond 

3. 

a person learning a job 




a. emperor b. apprentice 

c. chef 

d. thread 

4. 

someone in control of a large area of land 



a. priority b. luxury 

c. assure 

d. emperor 

5. 

to angrily tell someone that they did something wrong 



a. scold b. bandage 

c. crown 

d. robe 



Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. The dinner plates with designs made of gold were a treat but not needed. 


2. The king wore a la rge, golde n hat. 


3. Joan is a person who gets paid to cook in a rest aura nt. 


4. George started to lose blood when he cut his finger. 


5. The book was so bad that I couldn’t read the whole thing. 


6. It is rude to walk away when someone is talking to you. 


7. Everyone is supposed to get down on one knee when the king walks past. 


8 . Her new boat is very big . Twenty people can ride on it. 


9. He wanted to become friends with his new co-workers. 


10. The long threads were woven into a warm scarf. 





Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. Why would someone need a bandage? 

a. They have overeaten. b. They have hurt themselves, 

c. They are sweaty. d. They are sleepy. 


2. If someone panics, what might they do? 
a. Remain calm 

c. Take a quick nap to save energy 


b. Begin telling jokes 
d. Scream and lose control 


3. Where would you probably not see someone wearing a robe? 
a. At the office b. In a hospital 

c. At home d. In a king and queen’s castle 


i What is a good way to bond with a person? 

a. To find something you both like b. To argue often 
c. To tell rumors about them d. To fight with them 


5. Which answer below would not be considered an important priority? 

a. Paying your bills b. Having at least three meals a day 

c. Drinking plenty of liquids d. Having ice cream 


6. Which of the following best describes an apprentice? 

a. An experienced chef b. A woman learning to drive 

c. A married man d. A girl learning a new job 


7. What will usually happen if someone is diligent? 

a. Success b. Sadness 

c. Failure d. Laughter 

8. Ifyou kneel, what does that make you become? 

a. Taller b. Older 

c. Smaller d. Younger 

9. Ifyou are assuring someone of something, what are you doing? 

a. Making them feel less worried b. Relieving a high fever 

c. Dreaming with them d. Playing with them 

10. Besides a departure time, airplane tickets will also have what other kind of time? 

a. A fun time b. A sleep time 

c. A movie time d. An arrival time 



The Helpful Apprentice 

There was once a small restaurant. People said that the best chef in the world 
worked there. But the chef was a horrible person to work for. He was impolite and 
scolded his workers all the time. 

The chef had a young apprentice. The apprentice’s first priority was to make the best 
food in the world. He was happy to have a good teacher, but he didn’t like the chef. The 
boy was a diligent worker, but the chef scolded him more than anyone else. 

Then one day, the chef got great news. The emperor wanted to have dinner there that 
night. He was very excited. He was working very fast, and he made a mistake. He cut his 
hand with a knife, and it started to bleed. The apprentice gave him a bandage, but the 
chef still couldn’t cook. 

The chef started to panic. The apprentice tried to assure him. “Everything will be 
OK,” he said. But the chef was still afraid. Then they started to work together. They 
began to bond. The chef told the apprentice what to do. The boy cooked a great meal. 

As soon as they finished, the emperor arrived. He wore a beautiful robe made of 
soft fibers. He also had a massive crown. Everyone in the restaurant kneeled when the 
emperor came in. The chef and the boy brought out his food. The emperor was used to 
luxuries. Would he like the food? 

The emperor loved the food. After his departure, the chef was 
very proud and very thankful to his new friend, the apprentice. 



fiF A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The apprentice helped the chef make food forthe Emperor. 


2. The chef was a massive person that everyone hated. 


3. The Emperor had a crown and a robe. 


4. The chefs finger was bleeding and needed a bandage. 


5. The chef was very polite and always scolded his workers. 


6. The apprentice was a diligent worker. 




SF B Answer the questions. 

1. Why was the restaurant famous? 

a. It served beautiful fibers, 
c. The best chef in the world worked there. 


b. The chef was very impolite, 
d. The Emperor ate there. 


2. Why did the chef panic before the Emperor arrived? 

a. The apprentice assured him things were good. 

b. He wanted to bond with the apprentice. 

c. The Emperor was a horrible person. 

d. He cut himself and couldn’t cook. 





3. What was the apprentice’s first priority? 
a. To fill the restaurant with luxuries 

c. To bond with the chef 

4. Why was the chef a bad person to work for? 
a. He was the best chef in the world. 

c. He often scolded his workers. 


b. To cook great food 

d. To make a meal for the Emperor 

b. He often cooked forthe Emperor, 
d. He wanted everyone to be diligent. 



— 



affair [after] n. 

An affair is an event or a thing that happened. 

-» My wife and I attended a formal affair over the weekend. 

assembly [asembli] n. 

An assembly is a group that is together for the same reason. 

-* The students had an assembly to talk about their interests. 

bless [bles] v. 

To bless is to ask God for protection or help. 

The angel blessed the newborn baby to keep it safe. 

cereal [sisrial] n. 

Cereal is a food that you mix with milk and eat for breakfast. 

Cereal is a fast and common breakfast food enjoyed in the U.5. 

cheerful [tpsrfei] adj. 

If someone is cheerful, they are happy or feel good. 

-» The children were cheerful because they didn’t have to go to school. 

diameter [daiaemitar] n. 

The diameter of a round thing is the length across its center. 

-» The diameter of the tree was about 22 centimeters. 

exploit [iksploit] v. 

To exploit something is to use it for greedy reasons rather than good reasonl 
-» The company exploits their workers and makes them stay 12 hours a day J 

famine [faemin] n. 

A famine is a long time with little or no food. 

The farmers couldn’t grow any food on the dry soil, so there was a famine \ 

harvest [ha:rvist] n. 

A harvest is the act of collecting food from farming. 

-♦ They had a lot of wheat from the last harvest. 

merry [meri] adj. 

If someone is merry, they are very happy. 

-* They felt merry because the weather was great. 




nut [nAt] n. 

A nut is a hard seed or fruit that comes from some trees and bushes. 
-* To eat a nut, first you have to crack its shell. 

pardon [pa:rdn] v. 

To pardon is a way to ask someone to repeat what was said before. 
Pardon me teacher, but could you repeat what you just said ? 

pharaoh [fcarou] n. 

A pharaoh was a king in ancient Egypt. 

— The pharaohs ruled Egypt for thousands of years. 

ripe [raip] adj. 

When a fruit is ripe, it is ready to be eaten. 

-* The cherries were nice and ripe. 

roast [roust] V. 

To roast something is to cook it in an oven or over a fire. 

— Mom roasted a turkey for the holiday dinner. 

routine [ru:ti:n] n. 

A routine is a way of doing things that is the same every time. 

My father’s daily routine includes shaving right before breakfast. 

scheme [skf.m] n. 

A scheme is a plan or design. 

-*■ Mickey and Minnie came up with a scheme to solve the problem. 

slim [slim] adj. 

If something or someone is slim, they are thin. 

-* Look at my new cell phone. It’s very slim. 

StOVe [stouv] n. 

A stove is a device used to cook food. 

Our new stove helps us to cook food much faster than before. 

theft [©eft] n. 

A theft is a criminal act that involves someone stealing something. 
-♦ The theft of his TV took place when he was at work. 


e 


Circle two words that are related in each group. 


1. 

a. 

theft 

b. nut 

c. cereal 

d. 

routine 

2. 

a. 

roast 

b. pharaoh 

c. stove 

d. 

pardon 

3. 

a. 

assembly 

b. affair 

c. bless 

d. 

exploit 

4. 

a. 

exploit 

b. famine 

c. merry 

d. 

cheerful 

5. 

a. 

scheme 

b. slim 

c. ripe 

d. 

harvest 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. The sun has a larger length across its center than the Earth. 


2. The cri minal act of tak i ng something stunned the classroom of friends. 


3. Her new plan may just solve our year-long problem. 


4. The woman wanted the religious man to ask God for help for her. 


5. During the longtime with no food , her family had to move to the city. 


6. The oil company used for greedy reasons the resources of the poor country. 


7. Since he is very skinny, most of his clothes don’t fit him too well. 


8. My thing that I do everyday consists of going to work, the health club, and finally 
home. 


9. W ould you repeat what you just said to me? I didn’t quite understand. 


10. In history class, the students learned about the kings of ancient Egypt . 





Choose the word that is a better fit for each blank. 

1. ripe / roasted 

After picking the fruit, the cook it in the oven. 

2. pardon / theft 

The boy didn’t hear what the police said, so he asked, “ me. Did they 

say that there had been a in his home?” 

3. famine / pharaoh 

During the , only the had enough food to eat. 

4. cereal / stove 

He wasn’t allowed to use the , so he made himself a bowl of 

I instead. 

5. slim / harvest 

After eating much of the food from the , she was no longer very 


6. diameter / nut 

You can tell the size of the food inside a if you measure the 

of its shell. 

7. affair /merry 

The party was such a happy ; everyone seemed so . 

8. routine / bless 

Her daily included visiting her grandmother and asking God to 

I her so she would stay healthy. 

9. assembly / exploit 

The king had a plan to the people, but the people had an 

to stop him. 

10. cheerful / scheme 

She was because everything about her had worked. 







Why Monkey Has No Home 

For five years, there was a famine. The farmers asked people to bless them and 
finally, they had a good harvest. Since there was now plenty of food, the pharaoh 
decided to have a party. The party was a happy affair. For five days they had a huge 
feast. 

Monkey was very happy. Because of the famine, he was very slim. Fie wanted to eat 
a lot of food. 

When he arrived at the feast, hundreds of long tables were filled with food. There 
were nuts, bowls of cereal, and ripe fruit. Fie could also smell hot roasted meat cooking 
on the stove. 

The assembly of animals was merry. Flowever, during the feast, Monkey thought of 
a scheme to exploit the pharaoh’s kindness. Fie decided to steal some of the food and 
then eat it at home. 

All the animals were cheerful. They didn’t notice that monkey was hiding food. After 
the feast, Monkey took the food to his house and ate it. Fie repeated this routine every 
day for four days. 

But on the fifth day, the pharaoh had a surprise. He was going to give all the animals 
a home. Monkey was very excited. But when he arrived at the pharaoh’s home, he could 
not get through the door. The diameter of his waist was wider than the doorway. He was 
too fat! 

Monkey asked the pharaoh to forgive him for his theft. But the pharaoh said no. 

“Pardon?” asked the monkey. He didn’t understand why the pharaoh was being 
unkind. 

“Everybody else will have a home now, but not you. Now you know that greed gets 
you nothing,” explained the pharaoh. 





J 


A • 



P!MF A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The pharaoh’s party was a sad affair. 


2. There was plenty of ripe fruit at the party from the harvest. 


3. The assembly of animals was merry. 


4. Monkey repeated his routine for five days. 


5. The diameter of Monkey’s waist was widerthan the doorway. 


6. The pharaoh asked Monkey, “Pardon?” 


PJMF B Answer the questions. 

1. The pharaoh gave a party for all the animals because . 

a. they blessed the farmers b. the famine ended 

c. he wanted to exploit the animals d. they were too slim 


2. What did Monkey do with the food? 

a. He hid it underthe table. b. He took it to his house, 

c. He gave it to the pharaoh. d. He cooked it in the stove. 


3. The tables were full of all of the following EXCEPT . 

a. vegetables b. ripe fruit 

c. cereal d. roasted meat 


What stopped Monkey from entering the party on the fifth day? 
a. A locked door b. The pharaoh 

c. His fat waist d. The other animals 


97 




adolescent [aedslesant] n. 

An adolescent is a young person or a teenager. 

The adolescent was excited about getting a skateboard for his birthday, 

aptitude [septitu:d] n. 

Aptitude is a natural ability or skill. 

He has a natural aptitude for water skiing. 

compliment [kamplsmsnt] v. 

To compliment is to say a nice thing about someone or something. 

Her co-worker complimented her fordoing a good job. 

hinder [hindar] v. 

To hinder is to keep someone or something from doing something. 

-* All the traffic hindered me from getting to work on time. 

journalism [d30:rnalizam] n. 

Journalism is the work of collecting the news to put in newspapers or on IV, 
— Before becoming a teacher, she worked in journalism. 

jury [d3uari] n. 

A jury is a group of people that listen to a trial and say if someone is guilty. 
The jury listened closely to the attorney before they made their decision. 

justice [d3Astis] n. 

Justice is fairness in the way that you treat other people. 

People turn to the court system when they are seeking justice. 

liberty [libavli] n. 

Liberty is freedom to do what you want. 

-+ To many people, the Statue of Liberty is a symbol of freedom. 

literary [litareri] adj. 

If someone or something is literary, it is involved with literature in somewa 
-♦ He worked hard to create a successful literary career. 

pharmacy [farmasi] n. 

A pharmacy is a place where medicine is sold. 

My mother sells medicine to people at the pharmacy. 


pill [pil] n. 

A pill is a small object that has medicine inside. 

She took a pill for her headache. 

presume [prizu:m] V. 

To presume is to believe something is true without being certain. 

-* Since he raised his hand, the teacher presumed he knew the answer. 

privacy Epralvasi] n. 

To have privacy is to be away from other people. 

-» Please hang the sign on the door so we can have some privacy. 

punishment [pAniJment] n. 

A punishment is something that one must endure for any wrongdoing. 
He was given a punishment for being rude to the teacher. 

sensible [sensebsl] adj. 

If someone is sensible, they make good decisions. 

-» It was sensible for her to save some money each month. 

Slice [slais] n. 

A slice is a piece from something larger, such as a cake. 

The girl enjoyed a slice of cake at her birthday party. 

sorrow [sarou] n. 

Sorrow is a very sad feeling. 

The girl felt sorrow after her best friend moved away. 

Straw [stro:] n. 

A straw is a thin tube that is used to suck liquid into the mouth. 

-*■ I drank the orange juice through a straw. 

Swell [swell v. 

To swell is to become larger and rounder. 

-*■ My sister’s stomach began to swell after she got pregnant. 

tidy [taidi] adj. 

When something is tidy, it is clean and in order. 

-♦ Leon has always been a very tidy boy. 




Choose the right word for the given definition. 

1. the condition of being away from other people 

a. presume b. privacy c. slice d. jury 


2. to say something nice to someone 

a. compliment b. sensible 

3. an object with medicine inside 

a. straw b. pill 

4. fairness to others 

a. sorrow b. justice 

5. a store that sells medicine 

a. pharmacy b. compliment 


hinder 

d. swell 

aptitude 

d. adolescent 

liberty 

d. punishment 

literary 

d. justice 



Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. What is a group of people that decides whether someone is guilty or not? 
a. A jury b. A punishment 

c. A pill d. An adolescent 


2. If you are going to someone’s wedding, 
a. That you are out for justice 

c. That you are tidy 

3. If you have the ability to do something, 
a. aptitude 

c. privacy 

4. A person reads a lot of books. 

a. literary 

c. pill 

5. If someone exercises regularly, what kind 
a. One who has aptitude 

c. One who likes to give compliments 


what will others think? 
b. That they’ll presume you know the 
d. That you work in a pharmacy 

then you have . 

b. swell 
d. hinder 


b. liberty 
d. journalism 

of person can we say they are? 

b. A sensible person 

d. A person who enjoys a slice of pizza 




3 


'I T T 




Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. The teacher preferred working with children instead of young people . 


2. It was hard for the students not to feel sadness or regret at the end of the school year. 


3. The newspaper was known for its excellent work in writing news stories . 


4. The pregnant woman’s stomach started to grow larger and rounder . 


5. The wall stoppe d his ability to see what was on the other side. 


6. Henry’s sente nce for doing w rong was to spend two years in prison. 


7. Everybody in the group received three pieces or portions of pizza each. 


8. I asked my father if we had any long tubes for drinking liquid . 


9. The children enjoyed their freedom on the playground after school. 


10. The doctor’s office was clean and orderly. 



■ 


»h* 

? 

lir 


Matthew Learns a Lesson 

Matthew was a sensible boy. He always kept his room tidy and had a natural literary 
aptitude. One day, he hoped to have a career in journalism. The adolescent spent much 
of his time reading and liked having privacy. But his quiet personality hindered his 
ability to make friends. 

One day, Matthew went to the pharmacy to pick up some pills for his grandmother. 
He saw some boys leaning against a pole outside. One of the boys complimented 
Matthew. “I like your jacket.” 

Another boy asked, “Do you want to go to Nate’s Restaurant?” 

“Sure!” Matthew said. 

The boys walked to the restaurant. They were going to have slices of pizza. They 
ordered their food and drank soda with straws. They ate until their bellies swelled up. 
Matthew was having so much fun. 

One of the boys said, “Let’s leave without paying.” 

Matthew didn’t want to. But he presumed his new friends wouldn’t like him if he 
didn’t. 

Suddenly, the waiter yelled, “Stop!” The two other boys ran, leaving Matthew there 
alone. 

Soon, the police arrived. “Leaving without paying foryour meal is the same as 
stealing,” said the police officer. “The restaurant wants justice. So next week you have 
to go to court and let a jury decide your punishment.” 

When he went to court, the judge asked, “Do you have anything to say, Matthew?” 

He said, “I feel sorrow for what I’ve done. Now I know that real friends won’t ask you 
to do something illegal.” 

The jury then let him have his liberty. But they 
made Matthew pick up trash as punishment. 

Much to Matthew’s surprise, he ended up meeting 
some new friends. 


w 





RCMF A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The adolescent had a natural literary aptitude. 


2. The boy leaning against the pole complimented Matthew’s pills. 


3. Matthew ordered a slice of pizza at the restaurant. 


4. The boys ate too much, so their bellies swelled. 


5. Matthew wants to work in the justice system when he grows up. 


6. The jury allowed Matthew to keep his liberty, but he had to help in the 

community as punishment. 


EPQII^U 3 B Answer the questions. 

1. Why was Matthew at the pharmacy? 

a. He wanted some privacy. b. He needed to buy straws, 

c. He was buying pills. d. He felt sorrow. 

2. Which of the following is NOT a word used to describe Matthew? 

a. Sensible b. Optomistic 

c. Rude d. Tidy 

3. Why did Matthew try to leave the restaurant without paying for his meal? 

a. He didn’t enjoy the food. b. He presumed his friends would like him. 

c. He couldn’t find the waiter. d. He didn’t have enough money. 

4. Why did Matthew get to keep his liberty at the end of the story? 

a. He complimented the jury. 

b. He persuaded the jury he had learned his lesson. 

c. He picked up trash as a punishment 

d. He hindered the jury from making a decision. 


103 





affection [efekjen] n. 

Affection is a feeling of liking someone or something. 
Amanda has a lot of affection for her little sister Sarah. 


agency [eid3ansi] n. 

An agency is a business or service set up to act for others. 

- I went to a travel agency to help me arrange a flight home. 

ash [as/] n. 

Ash is the grey or black powder created when something is burned. 

— The end of his cigar was full of ashes. 



confine [kenfain] v. 

To confine something is to keep it in one place. 

-* The elephant is confined to a cage in the zoo. 

dismiss [dismis] v. 

To dismiss something is to say it is not important. 

-*■ He quickly dismissed my idea about a new project. 

erupt [irApt] V. 

To erupt is for a volcano or something to shoot a hot substance. 
— * The volcano erupted for the first time in ten years. 



fate [feit] n. 

Fate is a power that causes some things to happen. 

-* Some people believe that a person’s hand can tell their fate. 

lava [I6:va] n. 

Lava is the hot substance made of melted rock that shoots from volcanoes. 
— The red hot lava poured from the volcano. 

miserable [mize rebel] adj. 

If someone is miserable, they are very unhappy. 

-» He was miserable after his dog died. 

navigate [naevegeit] v. 

To navigate something is to control the way it moves or goes. 

-» She navigated the ship across the ocean. 



104 






originate [srid3sneit] v. 

To originate somewhere is to start there. 

-* The idea of democracy originated in Ancient Greece. 

remainder [rimeindar] n. 

The remainder of something is what is left. 

— He took a bite of the apple, then gave me the remainder of it. 

retrieve [ritrr.v] * 

To retrieve something is to find it and get it back. 

-♦ She retrieved her mail from the mail box. 

Shallow [faelou] adj. 

If something is shallow, it is not deep. 

-» The kids were playing in the shallow water. 

slope [sloup] n. 

A slope is ground that is not flat. 

-» The slope to the top of the mountain was very steep. 

Span [spaen] v. 

To span a length of time is to last that long. 

His work began in 1999. It has spanned many years since then. 

superstition [su:parstifan] n. 

A superstition is something magical that people believe is real. 

It is a superstition that Friday the 13 th is an unlucky day. 

sympathy [simpaei] n. 

Sympathy is a feeling of being sad for another person. 

I felt sympathy for my sister so I got her a balloon to cheer her up. 

vibrate [vaibreit] v. 

To vibrate is to shake very hard. 

-*■ The machine made his whole body vibrate as he broke up the ground. 

wander [wanda x] v. 

To wander is to walk without going to a certain place. 

-» The boys like to wander in the woods and look at birds. 



Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. Which of the following mean that something is not important? 

a. Superstition b. Dismiss c. Vibrate d. Miserable 

2. What is the power that causes things to happen? 

a. Affection b. To originate c. To wander d. Fate 

3. What is the hot liquid from a volcano called? 

a. Shallow b. Ash c. Slope d. Lava 

A. What is something that a volcano does? 

a. Fate b. Erupt c. Remainder d. Sympathy 

5. What is it called to have belief in something magical? 

a. Superstition b. Vibrate c. Agency d. Confine 



Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. john was very unhappy when he lost his favorite book. 


2. Manny found a job with a local news company th at deals with other b usin esses . 


3. The river in front of her house is n ot deep . 


4. I don’t like to k eep in one p lace my dog; I want him to run around. 


5. The house burned down, and there was only grey powder left. 


6. She has to control where to go when she travels with her father. 


7. My plan to become a farmer started when I was a child. 


8. He has a feeling of love for his grandfather. 


9. The people left the town when the ground started shaking. 


10. I had a fee ling of sadness for her when her dog died. 







Choose the word that is a better fit for each blank. 

1. originated / superstition 

The from Europe and was brought to North America. 

2. agency / dismissed 

The quickly his idea as being too unrealistic to be of any 

use. 

3. slope / lava 

Their house is built on a . There is great concern that from 

a nearby volcano will destroy the house easily. 

4. vibrate / fate 

When he learned of his , he was frightened. It made his entire body 

uncontrollably. 

5. sympathy / confine 

Please your for someone who really needs it. 

6. ash / erupted 

A gray cloud of from the tailpipe of the carthat had not 

been started in three years. 

7. retrieve / miserable 

I felt all evening. Perhaps I caught a virus when I had to 

the missing sheep from the heavy rainstorm. 

8. wander / affection 

I have great for those who do exciting things. When I was young, I would 

often the countryside just for fun. 

9. remainder / shallow 

We sent the youngsters home while the of the group crossed the 

but fast moving stream. 

10. spanned / navigate 

It was a difficult trip, but we managed to our way through the wilderness 

in a trip that five days. 



The Magic Cup 

Paul and John were brothers. They fought all the time because they both wanted to 
be leaders of the agency they both worked at. 

There was a superstition in their town about a magic cup. People said the cup was in 
a volcano located far away. Anyone who retrieved the cup would have their wish come 
true. John and Paul both wanted to find it. Then they could become the leader. 

They both left to find the cup. Before their trip, their mother said they should work 
together. They dismissed that idea. Even though their trips originated from the same 
house, each wanted to travel alone. 

They were both miserable during the trip. They had to navigate small boats across 
shallow rivers and climb difficult slopes. Their journey spanned many days. When they 
finally got close to the volcano, the ground began to vibrate and the volcano erupted. 
Ash filled the sky and lava covered everything. John climbed to the top of a hill to keep 
from getting burned. A few moments later, his brother went up the same hill. They were 
confined to the hill until the lava cooled down. 

They talked about the things they had seen while wandering around the country. 
They felt more sympathy and affection for each other than ever before. They decided 
that fate had brought them together. 

The next day they left to finish the 
remainder of the trip together. Everything 
seemed much easier. When they finally 
found the cup, they learned that it didn’t 
make wishes come true. It was only an 
ordinary cup. But the trip to reach the 
cup taught them to work together and 
love each other. 



PZM/ A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The trip to find the magic cup was very easy. 


2. The boys dismissed their mother’s advice before they left for the trip. 


3. The boys were confined to a hilltop by the lava after the volcano erupted. 


4. A superstition said that anyone who retrieved the cup would become the leader 

of the agency. 


5. The boys had more affection and sympathy for each other after the trip. 


6. After the volcano erupted, there was ash in the sky and lava on the ground. 


P/MF B Answer the questions. 

1. Why didn’t the boys travel together? 

a. Their trips originated from different places. 

b. They were both miserable. 

c. They had to navigate boats across shallow rivers. 

d. They wanted to travel alone. 

2. Why were the boys always fighting?? 

a. The cup had special powers. b. They had very little food to eat. 

c. There was a hole beneath the tree. d. They both wanted to be leaders of the agency. 

3. Why did fate bring the boys together? 

a. To show that stories about the tree weren’t true 

b. So they could complete the remainder of the trip together 

c. So they could return home together 

d. So theirtrip could span many days 

4. What was surprising about the cup? 

a. It was only an ordinary cup. b. It did not really exist, 

c. It had their names written on it. d. It was made of gold. 


109 





Word List 



armor [armar] n. 

Armor is metal worn by soldiers to protect the body. 

The soldier wore armor to protect his body. 

blaze [bieiz] v. 

To blaze means to burn brightly or powerfully. 

The small fire soon blazed into a large dangerous one. 

boom [bu:m] v. 

To boom means to make a loud, deep sound. 

-*• The firecrackers made a loud boom when they exploded. 

Cliff [klif] n. 

A cliff is a high and often flat wall of rock. 

-* The wolf stood at the cliff and howled. 

flame [fleim] n. 

A flame is part of fire. 

The torch was filled with yellow and orange flames. 

independence [indipendans] n. 

Independence is the state of being free from the control of others. 

After leaving home, Sophia had a great feeling of independence. 

invasion [invei3an] n. 

An invasion is an attack by a group from another country. 

In Korea, walls were built around cities to protect them from invasions, 

knight [nait] n. 

A knight is a soldier of high rank and skill who usually serves a king. 

He was the best soldier, so the king made him a knight. 

lightning [laitnirj] n. 

Lightning is the bright light seen during a storm. 

-* The lightning flashed above the water. 

rebel [rebal] n. 

A rebel is a person who fights the government in order to change it. 

-» The rebel had enough of the government’s unfair polices. 



110 





retreat [ritrtt] v. 

To retreat means to run away because you have been beaten in a fight. 

— The army retreated because they were losing the battle. 

revolution [revalu:Jan] n. 

A revolution is a change to the political system by a group of people. 

The revolution in Russia led to the creation of the Soviet Union. 

Spear [spia:r] n. 

A spear is a long stick with a blade on one end that is used as a weapon. 

-» The soldier was holding a spear in his hand. 

steep [sti : p] adj. 

If something is steep, then its slope or angle rises or falls sharply. 

-» He rode his bike up the steep hill to reach the top. 

summit IsAmit] n. 

A summit is the highest part of a hill or mountain. 

-* Snow covered the summit of the mountain even during the summer. 

thunder [eAndair] n. 

Thunder is the loud noise heard during a storm. 

-» The sound of the thunder startled me. 

troops [tru:psl n. 

Troops are soldiers that fight in groups in a battle. 

-» The troops were all prepared to go into battle. 

warrior [w5(:)ria:r] n. 

A warrior is a brave soldier or fighter. 

The samurai were some of the most skilled warriors in the ancient world. 

withdraw [widdro:] v. 

To withdraw means to leave a place, usually during war. 

-* After losing the battle, the enemy withdrew back to its own country. 

yield [ji-.id] v. 

To yield something means to give up control of it or to give it away. 

-» He had to yield his turn because he was in checkmate. 




Exe 


PZ^EO 1 A Choose the right word for the given definition. 


1. to give up control 

a. revolution b. flame c. yield 

2 . to make a loud, deep sound 

a. boom b. spear c. cliff 

3 . the highest point 

a. knight b. retreat c. steep 

4 . a flat wall of rock 

a. lightning b. cliff c. armor 

5 . someone who disagrees with those in charge 

a. thunder b. invasion c. rebel 


d. independence 
d. blaze 
d. summit 
d. withdraw 
d. troop 


PZ^ED 1 B Choose the right definition for the given word, 
l. 


4 . 


flame 

a. a small piece of fire 
c. a long stick 
spear 

a. metal worn to protect 
c. a sharp weapon 

withdraw 

a. to leave a place 
c. to burn brightly 

lightning 
a. a mountain 
c. a high flat rock 
knight 
a. a king 

c. a strange event 


b. the total amount 
d. a loud sound 

b. a brave soldier 
d. to give up control 

b. a group of soldiers 
d. to stab with a point 

b. to run away 

d. what you see during a storm 

b. a skilled soldier 
d. a group attack 


Circle two words that are related in each group. 


1 . 

a. withdraw 

b. armor 

c. steep 

d. retreat 

2 . 

a. blaze 

b. flame 

c. summit 

d. independence 

3 . 

a. cliff 

b. spear 

c. rebel 

d. revolution 

4 . 

a. yield 

b. knight 

c. warrior 

d. boom 

5 . 

a. thunder 

b. troop 

c. lightning 

d. steep 




Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. Miguel did not want to give up control of his managerial powers. 


2. With his long pointed stick with a blade at the end , he was able to defend himself. 


3. During the storm we heard loud noises . 


4. The army was beaten, so it ran away to a safe place. 


5. The soldiers who f ought in groups during the battle were exhausted after the conflict. 


6. The metal we wore to protect ou r body was heavy and hot during the summer. 


7. We walked carefully down the sharp angle of the mountain. 


8. A feeling of being free came over all the people after the election of a new prime 
minister. 


9. The soldiers managed to hold off the attack from another group . 


10. We heard a loud sound when the hammer hit the brick wall. 




The Knight’s Plan 


A town was fighting for their independence from another country. Several rebels 
started a revolution. However, they were afraid of an invasion from a lot of troops. They 
didn’t have enough warriors to stop them, so they asked a knight for help. 

The knight made a plan. A tall mountain was outside the town. The road near the top 
was very narrow. Cliffs rose on both sides of it. 

“We must trick the enemy. They have to follow us up the mountain,” the knight 
explained. “On the narrow path, only a few can attack us at one time.” 

The people agreed with the knight’s plan. 

The knight put on his armor, and the warriors got their spears. When the enemy 
attacked, the knight and warriors acted as if they were afraid. They quickly 
withdrew toward the mountain. 

The enemy troops followed them up the steep path. Soon, the enemy A 

became tired. 

At the summit, the knight and his troops stopped. The enemy was close 
behind them. But now they were tired. Also, only a few could attack because 
the path was narrow. The knight and the warriors fought the enemy. 

But there were too many troops. 

The knight was afraid. If the warriors yielded the path to the 
enemy, the town would be lost. 

A storm suddenly came over the mountain. There was strong 
wind and rain. Thunder boomed. Lightning struck some trees 
near the enemy. The trees blazed. The flames scared the 
enemy and they retreated. They ran down the 
mountain, out of the town, and never returned. ^ 

The knight explained, “With a little luck, a 
good plan beats even a big army.” 


f 


I 


j 


Li 






r. 




V 






KM F A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The town was afraid of an invasion. 


2. The town agreed with the knight’s plan. 


3. The warriors wore armor, and the knight used a spear. 


4. The path to the summit was steep. 


5. Some rebels started a revolution fortheir independence. 


6. Sounds from the trees scared the enemy. 


J£M? B Answer the questions. 

1. Why was the narrow path important to the knight’s plan? 

a. Few soldiers could attack from it. b. It led to a high cliff. 

c. It was a safe place to hide. d. The enemy troops were afraid of it. 

2. After th ey withdrew to the mountain, where did the knight and warriors stop? 

a. Between two cliffs b. At the summit 

c. Near the bottom d. Out of the town 

3. Why didn’t the enemy thinkthere was a trap? 

a. They had more troops. b. They thought the soldiers were scared, 

c. They were tired. d. They were scared. 

4. All of the following happened afterthe storm came EXCEPT . 

a. thunder boomed b. the trees blazed 

c. the knight retreated d. lightning struck 


115 



UNIT 





bench [bentj] n. 

A bench is a long seat for two or more people. 

-• Most parks have benches for citizens to relax upon. 



confront [kanfrAnt] v. 

To confront a hard situation or person is to deal with it. 

-* The couple has to confront each other about their problems. 

daisy [deizi] n. 

A daisy is a small flower with white petals and a yellow center. 
There were a few daisies growing in the field. 

dispute [dispju:t] n. 

A dispute is an argument or disagreement that people have. 

-» Karen and Brian often have disputes about silly things. 



horror [ho: rar] n. 

Horror is a feeling of being very afraid or shocked. 

— The audience screamed in horror when the ghost appeared in the movie 

incident [insadant] n. 

An incident is an event that is usually not pleasant. 

-* Mr. Wilson had an incident where he became sick and had to leave. 

mist [mist] n. 

Mist is water that you can see in the air or on a surface. 

-* The forest was covered with mist. 

Object [abd3ikt] n. 

An object is an inanimate thing that you can see or touch. 

-* The shopping cart was filled with objects. 



orphan [o:rrfen] n. 

An orphan is a child who does not have parents. 

-*■ The orphan frequently cried during the night. 

plot [plot] v. 

To plot is to make a secret plan to do something that is wrong or mean. 
The group was plotting to ruin the company’s financial reports. 



r pregnant [pregnant] adj. 

When a female is pregnant, she is going to have a baby. 

- The pregnant woman was shopping for baby clothes. 

rage [reid 3 ] n. 

Rage is a very angry feeling. 

-* The chef was filled with rage when his helpers ruined the meal. 

revenge [rivend3] n. 

Revenge is what you do to hurt or punish someone who hurts you. 

-* He broke his sister’s doll as revenge after she lost his favorite book. 

shame [jeim] n. 

Shame is a bad feeling about things you have done wrong. 

-♦ The boy felt shame about misplacing his clothes. 

Sigh [sail v. 

To sigh is to breathe out loudly and show that you are tired or sad. 

Molly sighed when she looked at all the information she had to research. 

sneak [sntk] * 

To sneak is to move quietly so that no one hears or sees you. 

-* The thief snuck out of the house without anyone noticing him. 

Spare [spear] v. 

To spare something is to give it because you have more than you need. 

-* / wanted to help him but I couldn’t spare a tire. 

Stem [stem] n. 

The stem of a plant is the stick that grows leaves or flowers. 

-■» The rose had a long thin stem. 

SUpper [sApar] n. 

Supper is a meal that is eaten in the evening. 

\Ne usually have supper around 6 o’clock at my house. 

tender [tender] adj. 

When something is tender, it is soft and easy to chew. 

-* The meat was so tender they didn’t need knives to cut it with. 


ESS 

PAR'D 1 A Choose the right word for the given definition. 


1. 

to deal with a difficult situation 
a. revenge b. confront 

c. supper 

d. 

object 

2. 

a part of a flower 
a. horror b. mist 

c. bench 

d. 

stem 

3. 

soft and easy to chew 
a. tender b. retreat 

c. steep 

d. 

summit 

4. 

feeling of being afraid 
a. incident b. pregnant 

c. horror 

d. 

spare 

5. 

to breathe air 

a. sigh b. daisy 

c. shame 

d. 

orphan 


PAR? B Choose the right definition for the given word. 


1 . 

bench 
a. quiet 

b. 

a seat 

c. no parents 

d. 

meal 

2. 

plot 

a. to plan 

b. 

a flower 

c. to get even 

d. 

soft 

3. 

supper 

a. a hard situation 

b. 

breathe 

c. meal 

d. 

flower part 

4. 

dispute 

a. an argument 

b. 

a shock 

c. flat rock 

d. 

a baby 

5. 

incident 
a. water 

b. 

to feel bad 

c. extra 

d. 

a bad event 


Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. If a child loses their parents, what do they become? 

a. A daisy b. An orphan c. A spare d. An object 

2. What would you call someone who can spare time to help you? 

a. greedy b. mean c. kind d. arrogant 

3. What is something that would fill you with shame? 


a. Buying new shoes 
c. Eating cake 

4. What would put a person in a rage? 
a. Getting a new job 

c. Meeting friends 

5. If you sneak, what are you doing? 
a. Loudly talking 

c. Trying not to be heard 


b. Stealing from your grandparents 
d. Buying some books 

b. A bright sunny day 
d. Someone stealing their car 

b. Trying not to be seen 
d. Happily singing 


118 









Choose the word that is the better fit for each blank. 

1. mist /daisy 

She went to the lawn and cut a from the garden. It smelled good and 

was covered in . 

2. dispute / confronted 

The employees had a long with the owner over their low pay. Eventually, 

one worker the owner and was finally able to solve the problem. 

3. bench / sighed 

She looked across the schoolyard, hoping to find an empty where she 

could rest. Since they were all full, she and sat on the ground instead. 

4. incident / horror 

The of the car accident made him too scared to drive. It wasn’t until 

three years after the that he got into a car again. 

5. pregnant / spare 

The woman couldn’t go to work anymore, so she had a lot of to 

with her hobbies. 

6. revenge / plotted 

He wasn’t usually a person who tried to get . However, when he learned 

that his classmates had against him, he changed his position. 

7. stems / rage 

A dog got into the garden and ate all the flowers, leaving behind only the . 

When the owner found out, he felt . 

8. tender / supper 

Mr. Holloway cooked hamburgers and vegetables for yesterday. 

Everything was cooked very well. The meat was juicy and the vegetables were 


9. sneak /orphan 

The didn’t have anybody to take care of him. He often had to 

into empty houses during the winter just to keep warm. 

10. shame / objects 

A thief had taken several from the museum. After a few days, however, 

he felt a sense of and returned everything. 



( 


I 




The Magic Pear Tree 

It was a cool morning, and the grass was covered in mist. The market was full of 
people. A mean farmer named Jack yelled, “Pears for sale!” He sat on a bench, plotting 
how he could trick people. Then an orphan came to his cart. 

“Can you spare a pear?” she asked. 

Jack felt rage. He replied, “You don’t have any money!” 

“Please, I haven’t had supper in days.” 

“No!” shouted the farmer. 

The orphan sighed. However, a pregnant lady heard the dispute and confronted 
Jack. “Just give her a pear,” she said. Jack had no shame and said no. 

Finally, a man bought a pear for the girl. 

The girl quickly ate it, but she saved the seed. She wanted to get 

revenge. 

She told Jack, “I know a way to get hundreds of pears 
in one day. I’ll show you how.” 

He watched the girl dig a hole. She dropped the seed 
into the ground. Then she spread the dirt over it. 

“Watch closely,” she said. “In a few minutes, a stem 

will grow. It’ll turn into a tree that’s 
full of pears!” 

Jack stared at the dirt, 
but nothing happened. The 
only objects there were a few 
daisies. He looked for the girl, 

1 but she had snuck away. 

Then he looked at his 
cart in horror. It was empty! 

He suddenly realized that 
the orphan had tricked him. 

While Jack was waiting for 
the tree to grow, the people 
had taken the pears from his 

Mlj cart. They all laughed while they were eating the 
tender fruit. The farmer felt ashamed. The incident 
taught him to be kinder. 


IS 






a.i Y.^flO-U 



KiBU A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 


2. The farmer didn’t feel shame about being unkind until after the incident. 


3. The people in the marketplace plotted to get revenge against the farmer. 


4. The girl sighed because she was tired of waiting for the tree to grow. 


5. The girl snuck away before the farmer could confront her. 


6. The orphan ate a large supper the night before. 


KMF B Answer the questions. 

1. What object did the girl keep after she ate the pear? 

a. The seed b. The stem 

c. A daisy d. The cart 

2. What was the dispute between the orphan and the farmer about? 

a. The girl wanted a spare pear. b. The farmer felt rage about the girl, 

c. The girl sat on his bench. d. The farmer’s pears were too expensive. 

3. What did the girl do immediately after she put the seed in the ground? 
a. She asked the farmer to watch closely, b. She ate the pear. 

c. She spread the dirt over it. d. She dug a hole. 

4. What happened to the farmer’s pears at the end of the story? 

a. They were stolen by the crowd. b. They were all sold, 

c. They were given away. d. They were taken by the girl. 


121 










v'VtV 







beneath [bini :o] prep. 

If something is beneath something else, it is under it. 

-» The largest part of an iceberg lies beneath the waterline. 

Clib [k/vb] n. 

A cub is a baby animal, such as a bear or lion. 

The lion cub was crying for its mother. 

dawn [do:n] n. 

Dawn is the time of day when the sun rises. 

At dawn, the sun gently rose over the farm. 

dissatisfied [dissaetisfaid] adj. 

If you are dissatisfied, you are not happy with something. 

- I was dissatisfied with their decision to work on Sunday. 

ease B:d n. 

When something is done with ease, it is not hard to do. 

-» The monkey climbed the tree with ease. 

evident [evidant] adj. 

When something is evident, it is easy to see or understand. 

-» It was evident from the look on his face that he was unhappy. 

hail [heil] n. 

Hail is ice that falls from the sky when rain freezes. 

-* The hail from the storm was the size of golf balls. 

hOWl [haul] v. 

To howl means to make a long, loud sound like a wolf or a dog. 
The wolf howled at the moon. 

leap [li:p] v. 

To leap means to jump a long distance. 

He had to leap over the gap to reach the other side of the hill. 

magnificent [maegnifasant] adj. 

When something is magnificent, it is beautiful and grand. 

The man gave his wife a pair of magnificent diamond earrings. 


necessity [nisesati] n. 

A necessity is something that is needed. 

-* Fresh water is a necessity for life. 

OlitCOme [autkAm] n. 

An outcome is the end of an action or event. 

— The outcome of his latest business plan was a complete failure. 

pile [pail] n. 

A pile is a large group of things on top of one another. 

-> The pile of cups was beginning to tilt. 

profound [prafaund] adj. 

When something is profound, it is very intelligent. 

-* For a little boy, Jeremy has some profound thoughts. 

seize [si.z] v. 

To seize something means to grab it quickly or strongly. 

The man seized as much money as he could before anyone could see him. 

squeeze [skwi:z] v. 

To squeeze something means to press it together and hold it tightly. 

-♦ When Clara saw her cat, she gave it a big squeeze. 

supreme [supriim] adj. 

When something is supreme, it is the highest or best. 

-* The supreme officer was in charge of keeping the citizens calm. 

terrific [tarifik] adj. 

When something is terrific, it is very good. 

-» My youngest daughter is a terrific painter. 

trait [treit] n. 

A trait is part of someone’s personality. 

-» One trait of Salvador’s personality is his cheerfulness. 

vital [vaitl] adj. 

When something is vital, it is necessary for life. 

The heart is a vital organ. 


123 



Choose the right word for the given definition. 


1 . 

a part of one’s personality 
a. trait b. profound 

c. necessity 

d. 

magnificent 

2. 

to press together 

a. vital b. squeeze 

c. terrific 

d. 

trait 

3. 

to jump a long distance 
a. squeeze b. seize 

c. howl 

d. 

leap 

1 

frozen rain 

a. hail b. dissatisfied 

c. outcome 

d. 

dawn 

5 - 

the condition of being with little or no problem 




a. dawn b. beneath 

c. ease 

d. 

pile 


Exe 



Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. The princess looked beautiful a nd grand in her new dress. 


2. It is a ne eded thing to hold your breath when swimming underwater. 


3. The tribe honored their highest an d best chief. 


4. The runnerwas pleased with the end of the race. 


5. The answerto this problem is easy to understand . 


6. My father will be unhappy if I do not clean my bedroom. 


7. The police grab criminals that try to run away. 


8. The early news program comes on TV at the time the sun rises . 


9. We covered the trap with a large group of sticks and grass. 


10. The lion protected her baby an imal from the hunters. 





Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. If you complete a task with no problem, then it was done with what? 

a. Necessity b. Dawn 

c. Ease d. Leap 

2. Which of the following is the one that a police officer would seize? 

a. A mechanic b. A criminal 

c. A cold d. A teacher 


3. How would you describe something magnificent? 

a. Very lovely b. Small and dirty 

c. Having a bad smell d. Extremely smart 

i A leap is most similar to which of the following? 
a. Sprint b. Jump 

c. Squat d. Climb 

5. Which of these would be considered profound? 

a. A puddle on the ground b. A blank sheet of paper 

c. New shoes d. A great idea 

6. Ifyou squeeze someone, it may mean what? 

a. You like them. b. You are hungry, 

c. You are very tired. d. You want to go home. 


7. Ifyou are beneath your friend, then where is he? 

a. He’s above me. b. He’s below me. 

c. He’s beside me. d. He’s nowhere to be found. 


8. What kind of animal will usually howl? 

a. A duck b. A parrot 

c. An ostrich d. A wolf 


9. Which is the most vital for human survival? 

a. Food b. Water 

c. A heart d. Money 


10 . 


What is something that would make you feel terrific? 


a. Making a friend happy 
c. Pushing someone down 


b. Being late for class 
d. Breaking your finger 




Little Wolf and Mother Wolf 

Mother Wolf was a magnificent animal. She had all the traits of a terrific hunter. She 
was very strong and fast. She knew how to hide and how to seize prey. Mother Wolf was 
the forest’s supreme creature. Her skills were evident to all the other animals. 

Mother Wolf lived in a den beneath a tree with her cub, Little Wolf. At dawn, Little 
Wolf and Mother Wolf were eating breakfast. Little Wolf looked sad. Mother Wolf said, 
“What is wrong, my cub?” 

Little Wolf said, “I want to be big like you. You can run and leap better than anyone. 
You can howl so loudly. Being big is a necessity, and I am so small.” 

Mother Wolf said, “Don’t be dissatisfied with your size. Being small can be very 
helpful sometimes.” 

Just then, rain and hail began to fall. The tree was hit by lightning. It fell on the 
wolves’ den. Little Wolf was scared. The wolves knew that escaping the den was vital. 
Mother Wolf said, “Little Wolf, I cannot move the heavy pile of branches. But you can 
escape with ease. You can get out and find help!” 

Little Wolf crawled out of the den and called all the large animals for help. They went 
to the den and pulled away the branches. Mother Wolf came out and said, “Thankyou 
Little Wolf! You saved my life!” She softly squeezed Little Wolf and kissed her. 

Little Wolf smiled. She said, “Mother, this outcome has taught me a profound 
lesson. Even though I’m small, I’m still important.” 




Readin 


AsJ si 


P/Mf A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Mother Wolf was a magnificent animal. 


2. Little Wolf knew how to seize prey. 


3. Mother Wolf couldn’t move the pile of branches. 


4. Mother Wolf made a den inside of a tree. 


5. The large animals pulled the branches away. 


6. Little Wolf saved Mother Wolfs life. 


W B Answer the questions. 

1. Which is NOT a trait of a terrific hunter like Mother Wolf? 


a. Being strong 
c. Being fast 

2. Little Wolf was scared because . 

a. Mother Wolf became ill 

c. a tree fell on the den 

3. Why did Little Wolf feel sad? 

a. She could leap like her mother, 
c. She was dissatisfied with her mother. 


b. Being small 
d. Being big 


b. the snow filled the ground 
d. a hunter was chasing them 


b. She wanted to howl at the animals, 
d. She thought she was useless. 


4. According to the reading, why did Mother Wolf squeeze her cub? 

a. Because Little Wolf was laughing b. Because Little Wolf smiled 

c. Because Little Wolf was hurt d. Because Little Wolf saved her 



UNIT 




Word List 


! i 




L ; 


m 


accustomed [okAstumd] adj. 

When you become accustomed to something, you are in the habit of it. 

-* Grandfather is accustomed to reading the newspaper every morning. 

affirm [efa:rm] v. 

To affirm is to say that something is true. 

-» Using a graph, Malcolm affirmed the success of the company. 

astonished lastdmjt] adj. 

If someone is astonished, they are very surprised or shocked. 

-* / was astonished when he pulled the live rabbit out of his hat. 

HH r bang [aen] V. 

To bang is to hit something to make a noise. 

-» The drummer banged on his drum as he marched in the parade. 

I 

] Clan [klaen] n. 

A clan is a group of relatives or friends. 

The Lee clan meets every year to celebrate the New Year. 

dim [dim] adj. 

When something is dim, it does not give out much light. 

-► Working in a dim room is bad for your eyes. 

emphasis [emfasis] n. 

Emphasis is special attention or importance. 

-» The students put special emphasis on chapter 4 because it will be on fh<) 

fable [feibal] n. 

A fable is a short story that teaches a lesson. 

-* In the fable about the tortoise and the hare, the lesson is consistency. 

feast [fi:st] n. 

A feast is a large meal for many people. 

-* At Thanksgiving, I enjoy a wonderful feast with my family. 

glow [glou] V. 

To glow is to make a soft light. 

-» The small flame glowed softly. 




hollow [halou] adj. 

When something is hollow, it has an empty space inside. 

— > Straws are hollow, so liquid can flow through them. 

instinct [instir]frt] n. 

Instinct is the natural way that people behave without thinking about it. 
Cats hunt mice because of instinct. 

joint [d30intl n. 

A joint is a place of the body where the bones meet, such as the knee. 
-* Two important bones in your leg meet at a joint in your knee. 

leak [ii:k] v. 

To leak is to let a liquid or gas pass through a flaw. 

The pipe leaks from many places. 

physician [fizijan] n. 

A physician is a doctor. 

-» The physician said I would feel better if I took my medicine. 

sacrifice [saekrafais] v. 

To sacrifice something valuable is to give it up to get something else. 

-* Her parents sacrificed a lot of money in order for her to go to college. 

stiff [stif] adj. 

When something is stiff, it is hard to move. 

-» The bird was standing on the tree’s stiff branch. 

stroke [strouk] v. 

To stroke is to move a hand over something or someone. 

-♦ She stroked her cheek to see if there was something on it. 

tragic [traed3ik] adj. 

When something is tragic, it is connected with death and suffering. 

The airplane crashed in a tragic accident. 

tune [tju:n] n. 

A tune is a song. 

— The students played a familiar tune for the audience. 


129 






Choose the right definition for the given word. 


1. 

stroke 

a. to surprise 

b. to move a hand 

c. 

a light 

d. to speak 

2. 

sacrifice 
a. to give up 

b. to allow 

c. 

to cry 

d. to say 

3. 

joint 

a. very sad 

b. a large meal 

c. 

a short story 

d. where two bones m 

4. 

emphasis 
a. family 

b. a song 

c. 

a doctor 

d. special attention 

5. 

hollow 
a. natural 

b. cannot move 

c. 

to connect 

d. empty 



Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. She avoided walking in low-ljght areas. 


2. Since she’s lived in hot places all her life, she’s used to warm weather. 


3. The holes in the old pipes let water joass through onto the bathroom floor. 


4. Her back felt hard to move after she slept on the floor. 


5. He was happy to go home and see the group of family and friends. 


6. The very^shocked crowd watched as the magician performed his tricks. 


7. The school served a large meal in honor of the new principal. 


8 . The only thing that I could see in the dark night was my flashlight making light . 


9, It was a v ery sad event when his parents passed away in the accident. 


10. Her natural behavior told her to leave the room as soon as possible. 


130 





' fllT 


Choose the word that is a better fit for each blank. 

1. fable / astonished 

The was about a young boy with magic powers. At first nobody believed 

when he made a cat disappear. 


him, but everyone was _____ 

2. instincts / banged 

After hearing the bad news, she her fist on the table in anger. Things 

would go wrong, her told her. 


3. accustomed / feast 

Though the food was good, he felt sick after the . 
to eating so much at one time. 


He just wasn’t 


4. joint / physician 

The stretched out my arm, looking at my elbow. He wanted to make 

sure that my pain wasn’t a problem with the . 

5. affirm / emphasis 

The university placed a special on student safety. They wanted to 

that they were interested in protecting students. 


6. stiff/ hollow 

He wanted to find out where his sister went after school, so he hid in a . 
tree in the schoolyard. However, when he came out, he felt 


all over. 


7. clan /tunes 
The entire 


. was excited about her wedding. While they drove to the 


church, they sang happy. 


8, dim / stroked 

In the 

She 


_ light, it was hard to find the earring she’d dropped on the floor. 
. the ground until she finally felt it. 


9. tragic / sacrifices 

The boy suffered from a . 


illness. Still, his family made 


to 


make sure he was always comfortable. 
10. leak /glowing 


into the room. 


He shut the door to make sure that no light could 

However, he could still see the moon outside of his window. 



L him 


The Old Man with a Bump 

An old man had a large bump on his face. He went to the best physician in town. He 
gave the old man tragic news: “I can’t do anything. You’ll have to get accustomed to it.” 

One day, the old man went into the forest. Suddenly, the light became dim. It was 
going to rain. So he found a hollow tree to sit under. It leaked a little, but there was no 
other place he could wait. 

When the rain stopped, his joints felt stiff from sitting. Suddenly, he heard a tune 
coming from far away. Many fables said monsters lived in the forest. No one could 
affirm that the stories were true, though. Still, his instincts told him that there was 
something out there. He walked farther into the forest. Then he saw a fire glowing. He 
was astonished to see a clan of monsters. They were having a great feast and banging 
on drums. 

He stood behind a tree, spying on them. Then the leader asked, “Who’s the best 
dancer here?” 

“Me!” the man yelled, coming from behind the tree. He started to dance. When he 
was finished, the leader said, “I want you to dance every night. In order to make sure 
you return, I’m going to keep something you love.” 

“Please don’t take my bump,” he begged. “I can’t sacrifice it. It’s good luck!” He 
exclaimed, pointing at it for emphasis. 

The monsters agreed that they had to take his bump. After they did, the man stroked 
his face to make sure it was gone. He had tricked them! He never went back, and he 
never had to worry about his bump again. 


4 


I 




PZMF A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The physician told the old man there was nothing he could do. 


2. The old man waited in the hollow tree even though it leaked a little. 


3. The old man’s joints were stiff from walking in the forest. 


4. The old man’s instincts told him to return home immediately. 


5. The man danced for the clan of monsters. 


6. The monsters took away the man’s tragic bump. 


P/MT B Answer the questions. 

1. What advice did the doctor give the old man? 

a. To bang b. To make 

c. To sacrifice d. To get 

2. Why did the man have to wait inside a hollow tree? 

a. The light became dim. b. It began to rain, 

c. He was hiding from monsters. d. His joints hurt. 

3. Why did the old man come out from behind the tree? 

a. To run away b. To eat 

c. To dance d. To play music 

4. Why does the old man stroke his face at the end of the story? 

a. To astonish the monsters b. To make sure the bump is gone 

c. For emphasis d. To affirm that the bump is there 




accommodate [akomadeit] v. 

To accommodate is to have enough room. 

-* The meeting room can accommodate nine people. 

drCUS [sarkas] n. 

A circus is a traveling show with animals and people. 

I like to go to the circus to see the animals do tricks. 

r coincide [kouinsaid] v. 

If two things coincide, they happen at the same time. 

-» My birthday coincides with Christmas. 

commission [kamiM v . 

To commission someone to do something is to pay them to do it. 

-* The artist was commissioned to create a picture. 

r dose [dous] n. 

A dose is a certain amount of medicine that you take at one time. 

-» My mother gave me a dose of medicine before I went to bed. 

dye [dai] V. i 

To dye something is to make it a certain color by using a special chemical. 
-* Valery got her hair dyed at the salon yesterday. 

extent [ikstent] n. j 

The extent of something is how large, important, or serious it is. 

-» He ate to such an extent that he became overweight. 

gender [c^endac] n. j 

Gender is a category that describes being either a boy or a girl. 

-♦ Do you know the gender of her new baby? 

r headline [hedlain] n. 

A headline is the title of a newspaper story. 

-» The headline on the frontpage was about the economy. 

informal [info:rmal] adj. J 

When something is informal, it is not official. 

-* They had an informal meeting to talk about their experiences. 




inquire [inkwaiar] v. 

To inquire about something is to ask about it. 

Dad called to inquire about the price of tickets for the show. 

messenger [mesandjar] n. 

A messenger is one who carries information from one place to another. 

-► The messenger delivered an important document to the office. 

peer [pier] v. 

To peer at something is to watch it carefully. 

-* She peered at people through the window. 

portrait [portrit] n. 

A portrait is a painting or photograph of someone. 

I saw many religious portraits when I went to the museum. 

pOSe [pouz] v. 

To pose is to stay in one place without moving. 

-* The kids and their dog posed for a picture. 

ranch [raentj] n. 

A ranch is a large farm where animals are kept. 

— My uncle has many horses on his ranch. 

steer [stiar] v. 

To steer something is to control where it goes. 

-» He steered the go-cart around the track. 

Stripe [straip] n. 

A stripe is a thick line. 

-» The flag of the United States has red and white stripes. 

tame [teim] adj. 

When an animal is tame, it is not afraid to be near people. 

-* The tame bird rested on his hand. 

tempt [tempt] v. 

To tempt people is to offer them something they want but shouldn’t have. 
-♦ / wasn’t hungry, but she tempted me with a piece of my favorite cake. 



e 


PZ^EO 1 A Choose the right word for the given definition. 

1 . 

to have enough room 



a. accommodate b. circus 

c. tame d. steer 

2. 

to change the color of something 



a. tempt b. dye 

c. stripe d. dose 

3. 

A category of being either a boy or a girl 



a. wipe b. extent 

c. informal d. gender 

4. 

the title of a newspaper story 



a. pose b. headline 

c. ranch d. inquire 

5. 

to pay someone to do something 



a. portrait b. commission 

c. peer d. messenger 

PZ\PTf B Choose the right definition for the given word. 

l. 

inquire 



a. to pay someone for something 

b. to ask about something 


c. to make someone want something 

d. not wild 

2. 

steer 



a. a picture of someone 

b. to stay in one position 


c. a traveling show 

d. to control the direction of a car 

3. 

stripe 



a. a line 

b. a person who carries news 


c. an amount of medicine 

d. describes being either a boy or a 

4. 

extent 



a. to have room for 

b. how much 


c. to change color 

d. a place with many animals 

5. 

coincide 



a. to happen at the same time 

b. not official 


c. to watch carefully 

d. the title of a news story 






e 



Choose the word that is a better fit for each blank. 

1. inquired / dose 

The patient if the doctor could help his shoulder pain. The doctor gave 

him a of medication that would relieve the pain. 

2. pose / peered 

The photographer through the camera, but the picture didn’t seem 

right. So he asked the people to differently. 

3. portrait / commissioned 

Her grandfather gave her a that was painted when he was a boy. Her 

grandfather’s family had a famous artist to do it. 

4. accommodate / coincided 

The day of the wedding with an important baseball game. As a result, 

the hotels couldn’t the extra guests. 

5. circus / dyed 

The performers at the had clothing that was funny colors. 

6. headline / extent 

They didn’t understand the of the damage until they saw the 

that said that thousands of people had lost their homes in the storm. 

7. messenger / stripe 

The carried the notes in a bag that had a long green on 

the side. 

8. ranch / informal 

The owner of the had an meeting with his employees to 

talk to them about the recent problems. 

9. steering / gender 

I couldn’t tell the of the person the car because it was 

dark outside. 

10. tame /tempted 

The trainer the tiger with a treat, but the animal remained 

in his place. 



The Circus 


Ben was unhappy. He lived on a ranch near a small town, and he didn’t have many 
friends. Then one day a messenger came to the ranch. He showed the headline in 
the town newspaper. The circus was coming to the town. It even coincided with Ben’s 
birthday! 

Ben was very excited as his father steered the car through the town. The circus 
couldn’t accommodate all the people who wanted to see the show, but Ben had a 
ticket. 

Ben peered at the activity around him. He watched people of both genders dance all 
around. They wore funny costumes, and their hair was dyed many different 
colors. Also, tame tigers with stripes on their fur did tricks. Outside, 
people could commission an informal portrait. They posed in front of a 
funny picture while an artist quickly drew them. Ben couldn’t believe it. 
He was happier than he had ever been before. 

That day, Ben knew what he wanted to do. He loved the circus to such 
an extent that he wanted to have his own circus when he grew older. 
Seeing the circus was like a dose of medicine for him. He wasn’t 
unhappy anymore. He felt special. He inquired about what he 
needed to do to have his own circus. He studied hard and 
learned about business. 

Ben worked very hard, and one day, he had his own 
circus. It was a great circus. People told him that he could be 
very rich. But he wasn’t tempted by money. He just wanted 
to make children happy. He knew the circus had changed his 
life, and he wanted to do the same thing for others. 










RCMT A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Ben lived on a ranch near a small town. 


2. Ben was tempted by money when he had his own circus. 


3. The tigers had stripes and were tame. 


4. People with dyed hair of both genders danced all over the place. 


5. Ben learned about the circus from a television advertisement. 


6. Ben was commissioned to paint informal portraits of people posing in front of a 

funny picture. 


[MW B Answer the questions. 

1. Why did Ben like the circus to such an extent? 

a. He could be very rich. b. He inquired about getting his own circus, 

c. It made him feel special. d. He took a dose of special medicine. 


2. What good news did the messenger bring? 


a. The circus was coming. b. 

c. Good weather was coming. d. 

3. What did Ben’s dad do on his birthday? 
a. He tamed tigers. b. 

c. He taught Ben howto drive. d. 


Ice cream was free. 

A new movie was showing. 

He paid for Ben’s portrait. 

He steered around town looking for the circus. 


4. Why wasn’t Ben tempted by money? 
a. His circus wasn’t very good, 
c. He wanted other kids to like him. 


b. He was already very rich. 

d. He only wanted to make people happy. 


Aborigine [aeb9rid39ni:] n. 

An Aborigine is a native of Australia before Europeans lived there. 

-* The Aborigines created beautiful artwork. 

ban [basn] v. 

To ban something is to not let people do it. 

-* Smoking is banned in this building. 

cautious Ik9 j9s] adj. 

If you are cautious, you are careful in a dangerous situation. 

— Be very cautious as you stack those boxes. 

confess [kgnfes] v. 

To confess something is to say that you did it. 

He confessed that he was responsible for choosing the winning story. 

COttage [katid3] n. 

A cottage is a small, old house in the countryside. 

My aunt lives in a pretty cottage in the mountains. 

daytime [deitaim] n. 

Daytime is the time of the day when the sky is light. 

-» / only allowed my kids to play outside in the daytime. 

desperate [desparit] adj. 

If you are desperate, you will try anything to do or change something. 

-♦ I’m desperate to find a new job. 

fade [teid] * 

If something fades, it gets quieter or darker. 

-► The piece of cloth I found was old and faded. 

fierce Ifiars] adj. 

If a person or animal is fierce, they are angry or violent. 

— ■ Wolves are fierce animals. Do not disturb them. 

gamble [gaembal] v. 

To gamble means to play a game that involves winning or losing money. 
-* Many people like to go to casinos to gamble. 










lawn [b:n] n. 

A lawn is an area covered in grass. 

— My dad keeps the lawn in front of our house very neat. 


mOW [mou] v. 

To mow grass is to cut it to make it very short. 
-» / mow our lawn every weekend. 


outlaw [autlo:] n. 

An outlaw is a criminal who hides from the police. 

The police passed out posters of the outlaw to all the people. 

prospect [prdspekt] n. 

A prospect is a possibility that something will happen. 

— He wakes up every morning with the prospect of having a good day. 

purse [pars] n. 

A purse is a bag where women keep money, makeup and keys. 

My sister likes to buy designer purses. 

rod [rod] n. 

A rod is a thin stick made of wood or metal. 

— / bought a new fishing rod to use while on vacation. 

seldom [seldom] adv. 

If something seldom happens, it doesn’t happen very often. 

-► It seldom rains in southern Arizona. 

shave [M v. 

To shave means to cut the hairs on your face with a sharp tool. 

-♦ My father shaves his face every day because he doesn ’t want a beard. 

terrified [terafaid] adj. 

If you are terrified, you are extremely scared. 

-* When I saw the ghost, I was absolutely terrified! 

wizard [wizard] n. 

A wizard is a man who can do magic. 

-* The wizard made gold fall from the sky. 




Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. Where are the Aborigines originally from? 

a. Australia b. Asia 

c. South America d. Europe 


2. If someone confesses, what do they do? 
a. Go away 
c. Tell the truth 


b. Make up a story 
d. Go back home 


Who often shaves their faces? 
a. Children 
c. Babies 


b. Women 
d. Men 


4. Which of the animals below is very fierce? 

a. A mouse b. A lion 

c. A rabbit d. A horse 

5. What do you need if you want to gamble? 

a. A kitchen b. Money 

c. A book d. Special boots 

6. What does it mean if you’ll try anything to make a change? 

a. You are fierce. b. You will rob. 

c. You are desperate. d. You are terrified. 

7. What does a person with a lot of opportunities have? 

a. Cottages b. Purses 

c. Prospects d. Lawns 

8. What should a person be like if they are handling something dangerous? 

a. Cautious b. Mow 

c. Wizard d. Confess 


9. What might happen to someone who doesn’t follow the rules of a library? 

a. They may be sent to see an Aborigine. 

b. They may be banned from the place. 

c. They may have to mow the grass. 

d. They may only be allowed to enter during the daytime. 

10. What happens to a cloth that is washed too many times? 
a. Its colors begin to fade. b. Its gambled, 

c. Its outlawed. d. Its seldom seen. 




Choose the word that is a better fit for each blank. 


1. cottage / Aborigine 

The lived in a large that was far away from the rest of the 

population. 

2. prospects / outlaw 

The old sat in his hideout trying to figure out what to do. He was out of 

and thought he should just turn himself in to the sheriff. 

3. wizard / shaved 

The popular was tired of not having any privacy. So he his 

long beard and dyed his hair so no one would recognize him. 

4. gamble / cautious 

Be when you with large amounts of money. 

5. daytime / ban 

We decided to all fires because they could spread easily. 

6. lawn / faded 

Mr. Beck’s once proud has been overgrown and since he 

moved away. 

7. desperate / purse 

The thief stole the woman’s from the table. 

8. mow / fierce 

I had to the lawn in the old field yesterday. As I did, I uncovered a small 

den of raccoons. 

9. terrified / confess 

I was by the thought of going to jail. So I knew that the right thing to do 

would be to my crime to the authorities. 

10. seldom / rod 

My grandfather lets anyone to use his favorite fishing . But 

since it was my birthday, he let me use it. 



, i I C C 



Hans was lazy. He seldom helped his mother with anything. He didn’t cook and he 
never mowed the lawn. He didn’t even shavel He spent the daytime gambling with his 
mother’s money. One day, his mother realized that her money was gone from her purse. 
“You’re banned from my house!” she shouted. “Don’t come back until you’ve learned 
your lesson!” 

Hans went to live in the forest like an outlaw. But it was cold, and Hans couldn’t find 
food. He went to a cottage to ask for a meal. 

An Aborigine answered the door. “Can I stay here please?” Hans asked. 

“You can stay if you work,” the man replied. 

Hans liked the prospect of food and warmth, so he agreed. 

The man pointed to a field. “Take this rod and plant it over there. I am a wizard, and 
this magic rod will bring us food.” 

The field was far away. Hans knew it would be hard to walk there. So he just threw 
the rod behind the cottage and sat by the river. When daylight faded, he returned to the 
cottage and went to sleep. 

The next morning, the old man looked very fierce. “You didn’t take the 
rod to the field!” he shouted. 

“No,” confessed Hans, “it was too far!” 

“Because of you we have nothing to eat!” replied 
the man. 

Hans was terrified that the man would punish him. 

So he ran home. “Mama!” he cried, “I’m desperate to 
come back!” His mother was cautious. 

“Do you promise to work?” she asked. 

“Yes!” said Hans, “I’ll never be lazy again!” 





PAR'D 1 A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Hans gambled with money from his mother’s purse. 



2. Hans went to the Aborigine’s cottage because he liked the prospect of working. 


3. The old man in the cottage was an outlaw. 


4. When daylight faded, Hans went to sleep under a tree. 


5. Hans didn’t eat anything at the wizard’s cottage. 


6. The old man got very fierce when he realized Hans had been lazy. 


PCMf B Answer the questions. 

1. At the beginning of the story, what did Hans do during the daytime? 

a. Gamble b. Shave 

c. Do domestic work d. Mow the lawn 


2. Why did Hans’s mother ban him from 
a. He was lazy. 

c. He couldn’t farm. 

3. What did Hans confess to doing? 
a. Eating all of the food 

c. Sleeping in the field 


her house? 

b. He wasn’t good at gambling, 
d. He didn’t listen to the wizard. 


b. Throwing the rod behind the cottage 
d. Stealing his mother’s money 


4. How did Hans’s mother feel when Hans returned home? 
a. Desperate b. Terrified 

c. Fierce d. Cautious 


A 


baggage [baegid 3 ] n. 

Baggage is the set of bags that people take with them when they travel. 
-► I’m taking several pieces of baggage with me on vacation. 

bulb Mb] n. 

A bulb is the glass part of an electric light. 

I had to change the light bulb in my bedroom. 








s 


bundle [bAndl] n. 

A bundle is a number of things that are tied together. 

-» I was shocked when he showed me a bundle of money. 

Cattle [kaetl] n. 

Cattle are cows and bulls, especially on a farm. 

-* The rancher’s cattle were eating the grass in the field. 

flee ini:] v. 

To flee means to run away from trouble or danger. 

-» The crowd of men tried to flee from the danger. 

graze [greiz] V. 

To graze means to eat grass. 

The cows grazed in the field. 

greed [gri:d] n. 

Greed is a desire to have more than the things that you need. 

She ate all the cookies out of her greed. 

herd [hard] n. 

A herd is a large group of the same type of animals that live together. 
The herd of cows moved slowly across the ranch. 

initiate [inijieit] v. 

To initiate something means to start it. 

-* You have to turn the switch on to initiate the computer system. 

lane [lein] n. 

A lane is a small road. 

-* The lane passes directly in front of our house. 


146 




nerve [n9:rv] n. 

Nerve is bravery or the belief that you can do something. 

-» He has the nerve to think that he can actually wrestle with a lion. 

Optimist [bptemist] n. 

An optimist is somebody who sees the good parts of a situation. 

-♦ Even though he has physical problems, my brother is an optimist 

parade [par^id] n. 

A parade is a celebration when groups of people walk in the same direction. 

-* There were many marching bands in the spring parade. 

pave [peiv] v. 

To pave the ground is to lay material on it to make it easier to walk or drive on. 
The path was paved with yellow bricks. 

phantom [faentam] n. 

A phantom is a ghost or spirit. 

-♦ A scary phantom appeared from out of the darkness. 

portable [poxtabal] adj. 

Something that is portable is able to be moved or carried easily. 

Since computers are portable, people can use them anywhere. 

poster [pbustar] n. 

A poster is a written announcement that is used to advertise something. 

-» I saw a poster about a free concert in the park. 

scratch [skraetj] v. 

To scratch is to make small cuts with a claw or fingernail. 

-» I used a stick to scratch my back. 

symphony [sfmfani] n . 

A symphony is a long piece of music performed by many musicians. 

Alex, a violin player, has always dreamt of playing a symphony. 

widow [widou] n. 

A widow is a woman whose husband has died. 

-* The widow had no children and was very lonely. 


147 





e 


P^MF A Choose the right word for the given definition. 


1. 

a group of animals, such as cows 




a. graze b. a herd 

c. a bundle 

d. a poster 

2. 

to escape from trouble or danger 




a. flee b. graze 

c. pave 

d. initiate 

3. 

somebody who thinks that good things will happen 



a. a widow b. a phantom 

c. a parade 

d. an optimist 

4. 

able to be moved or carried easily 




a. greed b. parade 

c. portable 

d. nerve 

5. 

a small road 




a. a bulb b. a symphony 

c. a scratch 

d. a lane 


P£\BTr Choose the right definition for the given word. 


1 . 

baggage 




a. a group of animals 

b. 

an object used during a trip 


c. a glass object 

d. 

a celebration 

2. 

nerve 




a. happiness 

b. 

sadness 


c. anger 

d. 

bravery 

3. 

initiate 




a. to run away 

b. 

to start 


c. to hit 

d. 

to cut 

4. 

graze 




a. to eat 

b. 

to want more than you need 


c. to carry 

d. 

to make nice sounds 

5. 

phantom 




a. an animal 

b. 

a person who sees the good side of situation 


c. a ghost 

d. 

a person whose husband has died 




Choose the word that is a better fit for each blank. 

1. initiated / symphony 

The band was almost ready to perform the . After a few moments, they 

the thirty-minute piece. 

2. graze / cattle 

The large field was full of grass where the animals could . The farmer 

knew his would be glad to live there. 

3. optimist / nerve 

Andy didn’t have the to tell his teacher that he had made a mistake. 

However, Kristin, an , thought the teacher wouldn’t get angry. 

4. lane / paved 

The man wondered if the near his house would ever be . 

5. bundle / herd 

A of goats followed the rancher into the barn. He opened a 

of food and fed them. 

6. greed / widow 

The told the hungry children to leave her house. She had more than 

enough food, but her kept her from sharing. 

7. parade / posters 

My whole class was invited to walk in the . We carried large 

that had our school’s name on them. 

8. bulb / portable 

The woman bought a lamp that she could take with her on trips. After a 

year, however, she had to buy a new for the lamp. 

9. fled / phantom 

There was a loud noise, then a large came into the room. The children 

screamed and immediately. 

10. baggage / scratched 

He bought new before the trip, but afterthe first time he used them, 

they were and looked old. 



The Bremen Town Musicians 

Larry the cow, Harry the rooster and Lester the duck lived on a widow’s farm. They 
dreamed of playing music in a parade. 

One day, the widow went to the lawn where her herd of cattle was grazing. “I’ll eat 
him tomorrow,” she said, pointing to Larry. 

Larry wanted to flee, but he didn’t have the nerve to go by himself. Then his friends 
Lester and Harry showed him a poster. 

“It’s for a parade in Bremen. We’ll go with you, and we can perform our symphony 
there,” Lester said. 

The animals put together a small bundle that held a drum, a flute and a portable 
microphone. Then they took their baggage and initiated their long journey. 

They walked down a paved lane all day. That night, they looked in the window of a 
house. They saw a group of thieves. They were eating a large dinner and telling stories 
about their greed and the people they stole from. 

Lester was an optimist. He said, “I think we can scare them away!” 

Soon, the animals came up with a plan. Harry flew inside and knocked overthe 
lamp. “What was that?” screamed a thief as the bulb broke. They could barely see now. 

Then Larry stood on two feet, and Lester flew to the top of his head. They looked very 
big. All three of the animals made scary noises. The thieves tried to hit the animals. But 
Harry flew over them and scratched them. 

“It’s a phantom!” yelled one thief. 

The thieves ran away. The animals ate and rested. The next morning, Larry said, “Why 
go to Bremen? We can stay here and make music!” And so they remained there and 
were quite happy. 





Re ad in 



P/aMT A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Larry, Harry and Lester were cattle on the widow Riley’s farm. 


2. The animals fled because the widow wanted to kill the herd. 


3. Larry, Harry and Lester wanted to go to Bremen to perform in a parade. 


4. The animals initiated the journey with only a portable microphone and a drum 

in a bundle. 


5. Larry was an optimist. 


6. Harry scratched the bulb to break it. 


P£MT B Answer the questions. 

1. Where did the cattle graze at the beginning of the story? 

a. In an old house b. On a lawn 

c. On the paved lane d. At a parade 

2. How did Larry, Harry and Lester find out about the parade? 

a. From an invitation letter b. From the widow Riley 

c. From a poster d. From the other animals 

3. What were the greedy thieves doing when the animals arrived at the house? 

a. Stealing things from the house b. Eating a large dinner 

c. Planning to steal from the widow d. Packing their baggage 

4. What did the animals pretend to be in order to scare the thieves away? 

a. Phantoms b. The police 

c. The owners of the house d. Thieves 


circulate [sarkjaleit] v. 

To circulate something is to spread it quickly. 

The fan helped to circulate cool air through the room. 



consequent [kansikwent] adj. 

Consequent means happening because of a different situation. 

-* Her consequent rash came after she touched the poison ivy. 

derive [diraiv] v. 

To derive something from another source means to get it from that thing. 
— Red’s nickname was derived from the color of her hair. 

drown [draun] v. 

To drown is to die from not being able to breathe underwater. 

-* He would have drowned if the sailors would not have rescued him. 

dynasty [dainasti] n. 

A dynasty is a series of rulers who are all from the same family. 

The ancient Egyptians had a dynasty that lasted for many years. 

fraction [fraekfan] n. 

A fraction is a small part of something. 

Only a fraction of the cake was gone. 

frOSt [fro st] n. 

Frost is a white layer of ice that forms during very cold weather. 

In the morning, the trees were all covered with frost. 

illusion [ilu : 3 an] n. 

An illusion is something that looks real, but doesn’t actually exist. 
Some pictures create an illusion for the eyes. 

invade [inveid] v. 

To invade is to take over a place by force. 

-* The enemy forces tried to invade our country through the air. 

lieutenant [lu:tenant] n. 

A lieutenant is a rank in the military or police, or a person with that rank. 
-» The lieutenant was a good leader, and his soldiers respected him. 



marine [mari:n] adj. 

The word marine describes something related to the sea. 

— A healthy ocean is full of marine animals. 

merit [merit] n. 

The merit of something or someone is their good qualities. 

-> The actor received an award for his merits in the movie. 

navy [neivi] n. 

A navy is the part of a country’s military that fights at sea. 

My country is known for our strong navy. 

polar [poular] adj. 

Polar relates to the cold places on Earth’s north and south ends. 

— Only a few people live in the Earth’s northern polar region. 

ray [rel] n. 

A ray is a line of light that comes from a bright object. 

-» The sun’s warm rays covered the beach. 

resign [rizain] v. 

To resign means to quit a job. 

— * After I officially resigned from work, I said goodbye to my boss. 

suicide [su:as&id ] n. 

Suicide is the act of killing oneself. 

-* Some people feel so sad that they think suicide is the only answer. 

tremble [trembal] v. 

To tremble is to shake as a result of cold weather. 

-* Harry was not used to the cold, so he trembled most of the day. 

underlying [Andarlaiirj] adj. 

When something is underlying, it is a hidden cause of something else. 
Her underlying fear of flying reduced her traveling options. 

Via [vi:a] prep. 

To travel via something means to travel through or using something. 

-» We arrived in the city from the airport via the train. 



Choose the right word for the given definition. 


1 . 

relates to the cold places on Earth 





a. polar b. marine 

c. 

frost 

d. underlying 

2. 

a small part of something 





a. fraction b. merit 

c. 

ray 

d. dynasty 

3. 

something that appears real but is not 





a. resign b. circulate 

c. 

derive 

d. illusion 

4. 

to get from another source 





a. frost b. illusion 

c. 

derive 

d. invade 

5. 

to die in the water from lack of air 





a. via b. drown 

c. 

suicide 

d. underlying 


PZMD 1 B Choose the right definition for the given word. 


1. invade 

a. to come from 

c. to take over another country 

2. dynasty 

a. thin layer of ice 

c. a person that knows about the sea 

3. merit 

a. a low ranking officer 
c. a part of a whole 

4. resign 

a. to quit 
c. to shake 


b. to kill oneself 

d. to happen because of something else 


b. a group of rulers from the same family 
d. very cold 


b. a good quality 
d. a hidden problem 

b. to die underwater 

d. to move from place to place 


5. ray 

a. a way to get through 

b. something that seems to be something else 

c. a group of soldiers at sea 

d. a line of light 




Circle two words in each group that are related 


1. a. tremble 


b. circulate 


c. ray 


d. frost 


2. a. dynasty 

3. a. lieutenant 


b. marine 


c. navy 
c. polar 
c. fraction 


d. merit 


b. derive 
b. underlying 
b. suicide 


d. invade 


4. a. consequent 

5. a. illusion 


c. via 


d. resign 
d. drown 



Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 


1. We only require that you donate a small portion of your weekly earnings to our cause. 


2. The massive empire that involved one family ruled for over 2,000 years. 


3. The thin lines of su nlight warmed the small room and made it comfortable. 


4. The unreal situat ion fooled many people into thinking that it was real. 


5. losie arrived by use of the subway. 


6. The scent of her perfume passed quickly from person to person through the room. 


7. After hearing about the new policy, Mitch was so upset that he quit his position. 


8. The thin layer of ice covered the ground and the windows. 


9. The kitten shook uncontrollably from being cold and wet. 


10. I was a low ranking officer after graduating from the military academy. 





h-{- : c 


■ 




How Did 

Greenland Get Its Name? 

The nation of Greenland isn’t very green. The sun’s rays don’t shine there for three 
whole months. As a result, it’s covered with snow, ice and frost. Then how was the 
name derived? It started with a Viking named Erik the Red. Erik had many merits. 
However, there was an underlying problem ... he got angry easily. People were scared 
of him. However, he was married to the niece of a very powerful man. So everybody 
tried to be nice to him. 

One day, Erik fought with his neighbor and killed him. His consequent punishment 
was to leave Iceland. 

Many stories circulated about a land west of Iceland. But only a fraction of the 
people in Iceland believed them. Still, Erik wanted to find it. 

Erik sailed toward the land via the Atlantic Ocean. His marine knowledge was good, 
but the trip was hard. Some of his men drowned. Erik’s lieutenant wanted to resign 
from his position. Others thought about committing suicide. 

Suddenly, Erik thought he saw something. 

“I don’t believe it,” said Erik. “It must be an 
illusion.” But it was no trick— it was the new land! 

Erik trembled in the cold polar air. He saw that 
there was ice everywhere. He realized that the ice 
could keep enemies out. Not even the best navy could 
invade the new land. He could start a new dynasty 
in his name. But how could he convince people to live 
here? 

“I’ll call it ‘Greenland,’” he said. Erik’s plan worked. 

Within two years, over a thousand people moved to 
Greenland. In the end, Greenland got its name all 
because of a trick. 











P/^] 1 A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The sun’s rays don’t ever shine on Greenland. 


2. Erik the Red wanted to start a dynasty in his name in Iceland. 


3. Erik the Red’s consequent punishment for killing his neighbor was to leave 

Iceland for Denmark. 


4. Erik’s lieutenant thought about resigning. 


5. The ice around Greenland protected it from being invaded by navies. 


6. Greenland’s name was derived from Erik’s favorite color. 


PAP? O’ B Answer the questions. 

1. According to the story, what was Erik’s underlying problem? 

a. He traveled via ship. b. He had many merits. 

c. He got angry easily. d. He circulated stories that weren’t true. 

2. All of the following happened to people on Erik’s ship EXCEPT . 

a. they wanted to resign b. they found gold 

c. they drowned d. they thought about suicide 

3. What did Erik think he was looking at when he first saw Greenland? 

a. A fraction b. An illusion 

c. Frost d. A marine bird 

4. Why did Erik want to bring more people to Greenland? 

a. To help them grow food b. So he could set up a dynasty 

c. To explore more land d. To protect them from the Vikings 


157 



alter [5:itwi v. 

To alter something means to make a small change to it. 

-* / altered the color of my nails to match my hair. 

aside [asaid] adv. 

If someone stands aside, they are on or to one side. 

The man stood aside and opened the door for me. 

autumn frtam] n. 

Autumn is the season of the year between summer and winter. 

I love when the leaves fall in autumn because I can play in them. 

blend [blend] v. 

To blend is to mix two or more things together so that they become one thin 

— My wife blended together all of the ingredients to make a delicious stew. 

collapse [kalaeps] v. 

To collapse is to fall down suddenly. 

-*■ The tree collapsed right in front of our house. 

crush [krAj] V. 

To crush something is to press it together so its shape is destroyed. 

-+ Selena’s new car was crushed when something fell on top of it. 

curve [kaxvj V. 

To curve is to move in a line that bends and does not go straight. 

-*■ The road curves to the left and to the right. 

disgusting [disgAstirj] adj. 

If something is disgusting, it is very unpleasant. 

- * After running all day, Greg ’s feet had a disgusting odor. 

drain [drein] n. 

A drain is a pipe that carries away water from a building, such as in a kitche 
-» The water in the sink goes down the drain as you wash your hands. 

embrace [imbreis] v. 

To embrace is to hug. 

When they saw each other again, the happy couple embraced. 




envy [envi] v. 

To envy someone is to wish that you had something that they have. 

-» Sally envied the happy couple. 

fireworks [faiarwarks] n. 

Fireworks are objects that create colored lights when they are lit. 

— The display of fireworks was so beautiful. 

flour [flauar] n. 

Flour is a powder made from plants that is used to make foods like bread. 
-» / wanted to bake a pie, but I needed flour. 

fUSe [fju :z] n. 

A fuse is a string that you light on fireworks to make them explode. 

-> The boy lit the fuse on the rocket and waited for it to burst in the sky. 

ginger [(fernd 3 er] n. 

Ginger is a spice from the root of a plant. It tastes spicy and sweet. 

-* Ginger is a common ingredient in many dishes from India. 

jealOUS [d 3 elas] adj. 

If you are jealous, you think someone might take something from you. 

-* Miriam was Jealous because Sue was paying too much attention to Jim. 

paste [peist] n. 

A paste is a thick and smooth substance. 

-► My son needed some paste for a school project. 

receipt [risi:t] n. 

A receipt is a paper that proves that something was received or bought. 

— After looking at my receipt, I realized that I had spent too much money. 

wipe [waip] v. 

To wipe something is to slide a piece of cloth over it to clean it. 

-» She wiped the dust from the windows. 

wire [waiax] n. 

A wire is a thin string made out of metal. 

The wires were connected to towers that brought electricity to the city. 


159 




Circle two words that are related in the group 


1. a. collapse 

2. a. disgusting 

3. a. ginger 

4. a. fuse 

5. a. aside 


b. alter 


b. curve 


b. paste 


b. envy 

b. autumn 


c. wire 


c. jealous 

c. receipt 


c. fireworks 

c. blend 


d. wipe 

d. flour 


d. crush 


d. drain 


d. embrace 





Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. The mixture was a funny color and looked very unpleasant . 


2. After the house fell d own suddenly , the family built a new home somewhere else. 


3. When the boy spilled his milk, his mother rubb ed a cloth over it. 


4. The bird moved in a line that was not straight through the sky. 


5. The mother hugged the crying child to make her feel better. 


6. The farmer’s food was usually ready in the season before winter . 


7. The m etal string was in between the two poles. 


8 . She made small changes to her drawing before giving it to her friend. 


9. The pipe that carries water away was clogged with hair. 


10. I asked the taxi driver to give me a document that proved how much l paid . 






Choose the word that is a better fit for each blank. 

1. collapsed / altered 

The roof of the old house hadn’t been since it was built. Since it wasn’t 

cared for, it eventually . 


2. blend / ginger 

The recipe says to use two tablespoons of fresh 
of the ingredients together and put it overthe meat. 

3. envied / autumn 


. Then 


all 


Last 


my neighbor’s parents gave him a toy rocket to put together. 


him because I’ve always wanted one for myself. 


4. aside /wires 

The family stood _ 
needed to fix the. 


as the father tried to fix the car. He was sure that he just 
on it. 


5. crushed / receipt 

On my way home, I accidentally, 
exchange them since I had my. 

6. fuse/ fireworks 


the carton of eggs. The store let me 


At the end of the festival, there were supposed to be . 
didn’t work because something had damaged the _ 


However, they 


7. paste /wiped 


. It was easy to use, and 


Annie bought a type of paint that was a thick 
when she was done, she it up with an old cloth. 

8. curved / embraced 

The player hit the ball and it through the field without anybody touching 

it. As a result, the team won the game and each other in happiness. 


9. disgusting / jealous 


The girl wasn’t. 


of her brother’s new friend. All they did was talk about 


. things like frogs and snakes. 


10. flour /drain 

Megan didn’t use enough 

poured the mixture down the . 


when making pancakes. As a result, she 
and tried again. 


161 




Everyone is Special 

When I was young, everything that went wrong in my house seemed to be my fault. 
Once, my brothers tried to make cookies. They blended flour and ginger and made a 
disgusting paste. Then they tried to wash it down the drain, but it got all over the floor. 
Later, my brothers said that I did it and I had to wipe it up. 

I worried that my parents liked them more than me. One autumn day, I was sure I 
would make my parents proud. I bought a model rocket. After I put it together, I invited 
everybody to watch it. I wanted my brothers to envy my technical knowledge. I lit the 
fuse, but nothing happened. 

“Looks like your fireworks don’t work. I hope you kept the receipt so you can return 
them,” my brother said. 

“It’s not fireworks!” I screamed. They were making fun of me again. 

I didn’t know what went wrong. I hadn’t altered anything. I quickly moved the wires 
on the bottom, hoping that would help. Suddenly, the rocket flew up. We stood aside 
as it curved through the lawn and ran straight into the mailbox. Then the mailbox 

collapsed. The rocket was crushed. 

Embarrassed, I ran inside and hid. A few minutes later, my mom asked, “Are you 
OK?” 

“I just wanted them to be jealous of me for once. Now I see why you and Dad don’t 
love me as much as them,” I said. 

“That’s not true!” said my mom. “See my fingers . . . each one is different. You kids 

are like my fingers: all are different, but I love them all the 

same.” 

I embraced her. Now I know that my parents love me 
just as much as my brothers. 





rm 


Pm 1 ? A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The brothers blended flour and ginger together when tryingto make a disgusting 

paste. 


2. The family stood aside on an autumn day to watch the girl launch her rocket. 


3. The model rocket worked after the fuse was altered. 


4. The mailbox is crushed because the rocket curves into it. 


5. The girl wanted her brothers to be jealous of her. 


6. The mother embraces the girl and says she doesn’t love any of her children more 

than the others. 


PZ^IF B Answer the questions. 

1. All of the following happened when the brothers tried to cook EXCEPT . 

a. they wiped up the mess b. they tried to put the paste down the drain 

c. they blended ginger and flour d. they got the floor dirty 

2. The girl thought that putting together the model rocket proved her . 

a. computer skills b. technical knowledge 

c. experience working with wires d. disgust of fireworks 

3. Why does her brother say that he hopes she kept the receipt? 

a. He envies her rocket. b. He wants to buy her a new rocket, 

c. He wants her to save money. d. He thinks she should return the rocket. 

4. The mother tells the girl that her children are like her fingers because . 

a. some are larger than others b. they all are small 

c. some are more important d. they all are different but loved 


163 







mt; 

ill i ^ 


o 


i 


O' 




acknowledge [sknalid3] v. 

If you acknowledge something, you accept that it is true or that it exists. 

— ► The teacher acknowledged that the young student was hungry. 

ambassador [aembassada/'] n. 

An ambassador is a government worker who works in another country. 

-* The ambassador from Korea was in charge of the conference. 

blonde [bland] n. 

If someone is a blonde, they have light-colored hair. 

-+ My cousin is different from me. She is a blonde with blue eyes. 

conquer [kankar] * 

To conquer a country means to attack and take control of it. 

The soldiers were trying to conquer the world. 

drag [draeg] v. 

To drag something means to pull it across the ground. 

-* The dog was dragging his owner down the street. 

exaggerate [igzaed39reit] v. 

To exaggerate is to say that something is bigger or better than it really is. 
-*■ Jimmy wasn’t exaggerating about the seriousness of his injury. 

heritage [heriticfe] n. 

Heritage is the collection of features of a society, such as language and relij 
-» Teepees are part of the heritage of the American Indians of the plains. 

insult [insAlt] v. 

To insult someone is to say things that will hurt their feelings. 

-* The girls insulted each other all afternoon. 


meanwhile [men/? wail] adv. 

Meanwhile means until something happens or while something is happening!) 
He wants to be a doctor in the future, but meanwhile, he works a regular j\ 

necklace [neklis] n. 

A necklace is a piece of jewelry that people wear around their necks. 

-* Joyce received a lovely pearl necklace for her wedding anniversary. 





noble [noubal] n. 

A noble is a rich and powerful person. 

The Queen invited a noble from a nearby country to dinner. 


precious [prejas] adj 

When something is precious, it is valuable and important. 

— In a desert, water can be more precious than money. 

prejudice [pred3udis] n. 

A prejudice is an unfair opinion about someone before you get to know them. 

— The company’s rules against gender prejudice must be enforced. 

rumor [ru:ma:r] n. 

A rumor is a story that may not be true. 

-» Carla was spreading rumors around the office. 

sin [sin] n. 

A sin is something that is wrong for religious reasons. 

-*■ Taking something that doesn’t belong to you is a sin. 

spectacle [spektaksl] n. 

A spectacle is an amazing sight. 

-* Niagara Falls is quite a spectacle. 

Stack [staek] n. 

A stack is a pile of different things. 

-* There was a stack of paperwork on his desk to complete. 

SUSpidoUS [saspi/as] adj. 

If someone is suspicious of someone else, they do not trust that person. 

Dad was suspicious of the caller on the line. 

tin [tin] n. 

Tin is a cheap white metal. 

Soup is a common food that is often sold in tin cans. 

Vase [veis] n. 

A vase is an attractive container where people keep flowers. 

-» The vase was filled with such lovely flowers. 


165 



P£Mf A Choose the right word for the given definition. 

1. something you keep flowers in 


a. vase b. stack 

c. tin 

d. 

spectacle 

to say something is better than it really is 



a. exaggerate b. drag 

c. heritage 

d. 

insult 

a rich and important person 
a. ambassador b. noble 

c. necklace 

d. 

prejudice 

having light, yellow-colored hair 
a. suspicious b. blonde 

c. rumor 

d. 

conquer 

not trusting of someone 
a. suspicious b. meanwhile 

c. acknowledge 

d. 

precious 


PZ^ED’ B Choose the right definition for the given word. 


1. heritage 

a. features of a society 
c. a government worker 

2 . spectacle 

a. an amazing sight 
c. something that is wrong 

3. drag 

a. to attack 
c. not trusting 

4. sin 

a. something wrong for religious reasons 
c. a place to keep flowers 

5. tin 

a. a color of hair 
c. a cheap metal 


b. to put into something else 
d. a rich and powerful person 


b. to take something 
d. a piece of jewelry 


b. very important 
d. to pull something 


b. the traditions of a country 

d. an official working in a foreign country 


b. to say mean things 
d. to control a country 



Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. The police waited for the criminals. While this was happening , the criminals were 
entering the building through the back door. 


2. The person who works for the government is from the UK but works in China. 


3. The piece of jewelry worn around the neck was made of pure gold. 


4. I admit that I was wrong in that situation. 


5. Don’t say unkind things to your little sister! 


6. Alexander the Great attacked and took control over many countries in Africa and 
Asia. 


7. She admired the very valuable ring that her mother wore. 


8. Would you please place one on top of the other the boxes? 


9. You shouldn’t spread things that may not be true about people. 


10. Some visitors to foreign countries experience unfair judgment , but most have 
pleasant experiences. 


167 




Pizarro and the Inca Gold 

According to rumors, there’s lots of precious gold hidden in the jungles of Peru. It 
got there when the Spanish conquered parts of South America. The Spanish noble, 
Francisco Pizarro, arrived in Peru in the 1500s. He found a group of people called the 
Incas. The Incas believed that their leader, Atahualpa, was both a king and a god. But 
Pizarro didn’t agree. 

“It is a sin for a man to think he is God!” he said to Atahualpa. 

Atahualpa thought Pizarro was insulting his heritage. He thought the blonde 
Spanish men held prejudices against the Incas. But Atahualpa was a kind man and 
didn’t want to fight the Spaniards. He said, "If I give you a room full of gold, will you 
leave my country in peace?” 

Pizarro was suspicious. He thought Atahualpa was exaggerating. But a few days 
later, Pizarro returned to the Inca palace with his ambassadors. He saw a room filled 
with stacks of gold. There were golden necklaces, cups, plates and vases. It was a great 
spectacle. He acknowledged that Atahualpa had told the truth. But after seeing the 
gold, he wanted all of Peru’s gold. So he didn’t leave the country. 

The Spanish soldiers stayed in Peru and grabbed all the gold they could find. But 
the Inca people tricked the Spaniards. They mixed the gold with tin so that it was poor 
quality. They gave this gold to the Spaniards. Meanwhile, they hid the good gold. They 
stuffed it into sacks and dragged it deep into the jungle. The Spanish conquerors never 
found the gold. People think it is still there today. 





A Mark each statement T for true or r for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Pizarro acknowledged that Atahualpa was honest. 


2. The Incas of Peru had blonde hair. 


3. Atahualpa offered Pizarro a room filled with stacks of precious gold. 


4. The Spanish conquered parts of South America. 


5. Pizarro thought that Atahualpa had insulted his heritage and that his men held 

prejudices against the Incas. 


6. Pizarro agreed that Atahualpa was both a god and a king. 


B Answer the questions. 

1. Which of the following did NOT appear in 

a. Pieces of tin 
c. Vases 

2. Which adjective describes Pizarro? 
a. Noble 
c. Suspicious 

3. What do the rumors say? 
a. Pizarro defeated the Incas easily, 
c. The Incas discovered the Spanish. 


the room with gold? 

b. Necklaces 
d. Cups 

b. Gentle 
d. Sensitive 


b. There is a lot of gold in the Peruvian jungle, 
d. The Spanish arrived in Peru in the 1500s. 


4. Who went to the room of gold with Pizarro? 

a. The King of Spain b. Spanish ambassadors 

c. Men from the jungle d. Tin makers 


169 


UNIT 




ache [eik] v. 

If something aches, it hurts. 

— Mindy’s head ached because she bumped it against the wall. 



arctic [a:/-ktik] adj. 

If something is arctic, it is from far north near the North Pole. 
It is cold when the arctic winds blow. 

canal [kansel] n. 

A canal is a path for water to travel through. 

-♦ The city of Venice, Italy, has many canals. 



chemist [kemist] n. 

A chemist is a scientist who works with chemicals. 

— ► My mother is a successful chemist who helps invent new products. 

chill [tjil] n. 

A chill is a feeling of cold. 

-» The chill from the cold wind made Bill shiver. 

congress [kongris] n. 

Congress is a group of leaders in a government. 

Congress makes laws for people to follow. 

dairy [dcari] adj. 

If something is dairy, it is made from milk. 

Things like milk and cheese are dairy foods. 

descend [disend] v. 

To descend is to go downward. 

I descended the stairs to get out of the building. 

grocer [grousarl n. 

A grocer is a person who sells food. 

Our grocer, Mr. Smith, is a very kind man. 

hesitate [hezateit] v. 

To hesitate is to wait for a short time before doing something. 

He hesitated for a moment before he decided which choice to make. 


170 




institution [instaVu:Jan] n. 

An institution is an organization that works to help a city or group of people. 
Banks are vital institutions that businesses and people use every day. 

jog [d 3 og] v. 

To jog is to run slowly. 

— He jogs every day so he can be healthier. 

merchant [mairtjent] n. 

A merchant is a person who sells things. 

- The merchant was selling used cars. 

poke [pouk] v. 

To poke something is to push it with your finger. 

I poked my finger on a thumb tack. 

postpone [pousfpoun] v. 

To postpone something is to make it happen later than planned. 

-» They postponed the meeting until Elena arrived. 

splash [splsej] V. 

When a liquid splashes, it bursts and hits something. 

-» Some green paint splashed upon the floor. 

stubborn [stAbaxn] adj. 

If people are stubborn, they don’t change their minds easily. 

-* Both of my parents are stubborn. They never give in to each other. 

suburb [sAbairb] n. 

A suburb is a small part of a large city. 

-» I grew up in the suburbs only a few minutes outside of the city. 

tide [taid] n. 

The tide is the level of the water in the sea. 

-> The tide continued to crawl upon the beach little by little. 

tragedy [traed39di] n. 

A tragedy is a very sad event. 

-» It was a tragedy when his house was struck by lightning and burned. 



1. 

very cold 



a. arctic 

b. grocer 

2. 

a person who sells things 


a. dairy 

b. merchant 

3. 

something very bad 


a. chemist 

b. chill 

4. 

to go down 



a. hesitate 

b. descend 

5. 

to run 



a. postpone 

b. suburb 


d. tide 
d. congress 
d. tide 
d. splash 
c. poke d. jog 


A Choose the right word for the given definition. 

c. canal 


c. stubborn 


c. tragedy 
c. institution 


B Choose the right definition for the given word. 


1. hesitate 

a. an organization 
c. to wait for a moment 

2. canal 

a. to go down 

c. things made from milk 

3. chill 

a. a group of leaders 
c. a person who sells food 

4. stubborn 

a. a very bad thing 

c. when water hits something 

5. poke 

a. to make something later 
c. to push with your finger 


b. to feel pain 

d. to make something happen later 


b. a path for water 
d. a small city 


b. a feeling of cold 
d. to run 


b. a person who sells things 
d. not changingyour mind 


b. the level of the sea 
d. a scientist 



Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. The party was planned for tonight, but it was moved to a later time . 


2. I was recently elected to the group of people who make laws in a governm ent. 


3. Mv grandfather was a person who sold food . 


4. The hospital is an important organization in the town. 


5. The scientist who works with chemicals created a new formula for health. 


6. The foods made from milk section is in the back of the supermarket. 


7. Don’t burst the water inside the tub. 


8. She lives in the small parts of the large city . 


9. The level of the water in the sea rises and falls every day. 


10. It hurts in my lower back. 



The Boy Who Saved the Town 

Marcus lived in a small suburb near the sea. He was a stubborn boy, and he only 
cared about himself. His father worked as a chemist for an institution and wanted 
Marcus to get a job there. Instead, the boy delivered milk. Each morning he took dairy 
products to the grocers. 

One day, Marcus was jogging down the street with a gallon of milk to give to a 
merchant. He didn’t want to be late. He ran down a path beside a large canal. A wall 
there kept water from coming into the town during high tide. But Marcus saw a small 
hole in the wall. Marcus knew that if the wall broke, it would be a tragedy for the town. 

At first, he hesitated. He had to choose between helping himself and helping the 
town. There was only one way to save the town. It seemed crazy to him, but it was the 
only thing he could do. He poked his finger into the hole. This didn’t fix the problem 
forever, but it did postpone the tragedy. 

His finger ached. He felt the chill of the arctic water as it splashed him. There was no 
one else around. He knew he had to wait until the tide descended. It was very difficult, 
but Marcus stayed there and saved the town. 

Once the tide had descended, Marcus told everyone what happened. A group of 
people went to the wall. They saw the hole and fixed it. Everyone was very happy with 
Marcus. The local congress even gave him a gift for saving the town. He was a hero. 






. 


w 








-r&i- 






} 










#0 I 
















HTT 



A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Marcus only postponed the tragedy for a short time. 


2. The chill of the arctic water made Marcus take his finger out of the wall. 


3. Marcus worked in an institution with his father. 


4. In the end, everyone was very angry with Marcus. 


5. Marcus didn’t want to be late taking the milk to the merchant. 


6. Marcus ran down a path by a canal. 


P/iMF B Answer the questions. 

1. Why was Marcus jogging down the street with a gallon of milk? 

a. He liked to run beside a large canal. 

b. He had to give it to the grocer soon. 

c. He was a stubborn boy. 

d. He had to make it home before the tide descended. 

2. Why did Marcus hesitate to poke his finger into the wall? 

a. He didn’t know who to save, himself or the town. 

b. He didn’t want to get in trouble. 

c. He didn’t want a gift from congress. 

d. The arctic water was so cold. 

3. What was Marcus’s job? 
a. He was a chemist, 
c. He did things to help the town. 

4. Why did Marcus’s finger ache? 
a. He was very stubborn, 
c. The water was very cold. 


b. He was a grocer in the suburb. 

d. He took dairy products to merchants in town. 

b. The hole was very small, 
d. He knew he would be in trouble. 


175 




bomb [bam] n. 

A bomb is an object that explodes and destroys large areas. 
The bomb will destroy anything that is near. 





certificate [sartifakit] n. 

A certificate is a document that says that something is true or happened. 
-> / was given a certificate after completing the computer course. 

circumstance IsaT-kamstaens] n. 

A circumstance is an event that makes a situation what it is. 

-» There were many circumstances behind their success like hard work. 

COffin [ko:fin] n. 

A coffin is a box used to bury dead people. 

-* When a person passes away, they are usually buried inside of a coffin. 

COpe [koup] v. 

To cope with a difficult or stressful situation means to deal with it. 

He copes with work stress by exercising three or four times a week. 

Criticism [kritisizam] n. 

Criticism is the act of saying that you don’t like or approve of something. 
She had a lot of criticism about their new plan. 

devastate [devasteit] v. 

To devastate something means to completely destroy it. 

The entire wall was devastated. 

frown [fraun] v. 

To frown is to make an unhappy look with your face. 

Melissa frowned when she found out that the party had been cancelled. 

gaze [geiz] v. 

To gaze at something means to look at it for a long time. 

We used a telescope to gaze at the stars for over an hour. 

glance [glaens] v. 

To glance at something means to look at it quickly. 

-» She glanced behind her to see if he was looking at her. 



29 












grief [gri:f] n. 

Grief is the feeling of deep sadness, usually when a person dies. 

The grief caused by losing her parents was very difficult for her. 

grOOm [gru(:)m] n. 

A groom is a man who is going to be married. 

The groom looked happy as he walked with his new wife. 

license [laisans] n. 

A license is an official document that gives one permission to do something. 
-» In the United States you need a driver’s license to drive legally. 

micrOSCOpe [maikraskoup] n. 

A microscope is a device that makes small objects look bigger. 

Germs cannot be seen without a microscope. 

nuclear [ryu:klia:r] adj. 

When something is nuclear, it relates to the division or joining of atoms. 

— Nuclear power plants provide inexpensive energy to cities. 

portray [poured * 

To portray something means to describe it or show it in a picture. 

— Her picture portrayed the house she grew up in when she was little. 

rotate [routeitl v. 

To rotate something means to turn it around in a circle. 

An airplane’s propellers rotate quickly to help it fly. 

souvenir [su vaniax] n. 

A souvenir is something you buy to remind you of a place or event. 

I bought a Russian doll as a souvenir from my trip to Moscow. 

submarine [sAbmarrn] n. 

A submarine is a boat that can go underwater for long periods of time. 

-> The submarine dove under the sea so the enemy could n ’t see it. 

trace [treis] * 

To trace something means to follow over it with the eyes or a finger. 

He traced over the graph with his finger. 


177 



A Choose the right word for the given definition. 


1 . 

to show in a picture 





a. portray b. trace 

c. gaze 

d. 

rotate 

2 . 

something that causes an event 





a. souvenir b. certificate 

c. circumstance 

d. 

criticism 

3 . 

a feeling of sadness 





a. frown b. grief 

c. bomb 

d. 

glance 

4 . 

a box for burying dead people 





a. groom b. license 

c. coffin 

d. 

cope 

5 . 

a device for making small things look bigger 




a. submarine b. microscope 

c. devastate 

d. 

nuclear 


PAHO 1 B Choose the right definition for the given word. 


1. certificate 

a. a document for permission 
c. between two sizes 

2 . cope 

a. to deal with a difficult situation 
c. to completely destroy something 

3 . trace 

a. to look at for a long time 
c. to show in a picture 

4 . groom 

a. a boat that can go underwater 
c. a man about to be married 

5 . bomb 

a. to go between two places 
c. an object that explodes 


b. something bought to remind of a place 
d. a document that claims a fact 


b. to look at something quickly 
d. to turn around in a circle 


b. to follow over with the eyes 
d. to express dislike or sadness 

b. a box used to bury dead people 
d. something that causes an event 


b. the act of finding fault with someone 
d. a feeling of sadness because of death 






e 



Choose the word that is a better fit for each blank. 

1. traced / bomb 

The engineer a line with his finger to where he thought the police officers 

would find the . 

2. nuclear / circumstances 

The politician said that there were many that lead to the US using a 

weapon on Japan. 

3. glance / certificate 

I was so busy that I could only at my daughter’s of 

achievement. I will take a better look at it when I get home. 

4. coffin / grief 

The entire family was filled with as their father’s was slowly 

lowered into the ground. 

5. cope / devastated 

I was completely when I heard the news of her accident. I hope that her 

husband can with the situation. 

6. rotated / souvenir 

Maria her so that all of her classmates could get a good 

view of it. 

7. frowned / criticism 

After receiving a great deal of about her idea, Katie but 

was determined not to quit. 

8. gazed / microscope 

Tony at the pictures of the new forms of bacteria that were discovered. 

Curious, he viewed samples of them through a powerful . 

9. submarine / license 

Eric did not have a to operate the sophisticated . 

10. groom / portrayed 

Lisa her new as the perfect husband. But we all knew that 

he had many faults. 


179 




An Interesting Life 


A man looked through some boxes with his grandson. They were filled with old 
photographs and objects that portrayed important events from the grandfather’s life. 

He wished to share the circumstances behind each event with his grandson. 

The grandson, however, thought his grandfather’s stories were boring. The 
grandfather coped with this. He ignored his grandson’s criticism. 

He took a photo from the box. “That’s the submarine I was on during the war,” he 
explained. The grandson gazed at it. 

The grandfather glanced at the next picture and frowned. It showed a row of coffins. 
His grandson noticed the grief in his grandfather’s face. 

“What is it?” the boy inquired. 

“This was after a nuclear bomb was dropped,” the grandfather answered. “It 

devastated a city.” 

Next the grandfather pulled a toy microscope from the box and rotated it in his hand. 
“Where did you get that?” the grandson asked. 

“This is a souvenir I bought at the science museum,” the grandfather said. 

Now the boy was really interested. He started to understand that his grandfather was 
telling him a larger story. It was the story of his grandfather’s life. 

He got another photo. It showed a young bride and groom. They were very happy. A 
certificate was attached to the photo. The boy couldn’t read it, but he traced his finger 
over paper. 

“What’s this from, Granddad?” he asked. 

“That’s my marriage license from the day I married your grandmother,” the 
grandfather said. 

“Wow!” said the boy. “Granddad, now I know all about your life!” 






1 * 








P/a\E?u’ A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The photographs portrayed important events from the grandson’s life. 


2. The grandfather explained that the picture of the coffins was taken after a 

nuclear bomb devastated a city. 


3. The first photo the grandson gazed at was of a submarine. 


4. The toy microscope was a souvenir from a science museum. 


5. The certificate was from the day the grandson was born. 


6. The groom and bride in the last photo were happy. 


B Answer the questions. 

1. Which of the following was NOT in the box? 

a. Photographs b. Souvenirs 

c. Letters d. A marriage license 

2. What did the grandfather say he did during the war? 

a. Worked on a submarine b. Made nuclear bombs 

c. Worked in a souvenir shop d. Took photographs 

3. How did the grandson feel at first about the circumstances behind each photograph? 

a. He frowned. b. He was full of grief. 

c. He was bored. d. He was interested. 

4. All of the following are true about the toy microscope EXCEPT . 

a. it was a souvenir b. the grandfather rotated it in his hand 

c. the grandson only glanced at it d. the grandfather bought it at a museum 



181 






- u ' 


k. .«iM 


i 


y l 


i. 


appliance [aplaians] n. 

An appliance is a piece of equipment used for jobs in the home. 

-*• Many homes have appliances like ovens, toasters and refrigerators. 

basin [beisan] n. 

A basin is large bowl for washing things. A sink is sometimes called a basin. 

-* She filled the basin with water and washed her face. 

brOOm [bru(:)m] n. 

A broom is a brush with a long handle used for cleaning floors. 

-* My father usually uses a broom to sweep away dust in the basement. 

caterpillar [kaetarpilar] n. 

A caterpillar is a small insect that looks like a worm and eats plants. 

-* After eating a lot of leaves, caterpillars change into butterflies. 

cupboard [kAbard] n. 

A cupboard is a piece of furniture that is used to store food or household item| 
We put all of our dishes and food in the cupboards. 

delicate [delakit] adj. 

If something or someone is delicate, they are easy to break or harm. 

You should hold the baby carefully because she’s very delicate. 

emerge [ima:rd 3 ] v. 

To emerge from something means to come out of it. 

-* The hand suddenly emerged from the grave. 

handicap [haendikasp] n. 

A handicap is a condition that limits someone’s mental or physical abilities. 

-* joe has a slight handicap, so he uses a walker to get around. 

hook [huk] n. 

A hook is a sharp curved piece of metal used for catching or holding things. 

-♦ The fish went after the sharp hook. 

hop [hop] v. 

To hop means to jump a short distance. 

-* The kangaroo quickly hopped away from danger. 






laundry [IS:ndri] n. 

Laundry is clothes that have been or need to be washed. 

-» He folded the clean laundry and put the dirty laundry in a basket. 

pursue [parsu:] v. 

To pursue someone or something is to chase or follow them. 

— The mother pursued her young child down the hill. 

reluctant [rilAktant] adj. 

If someone is reluctant, they do not want to do something. 

— She was reluctant to eat the meager breakfast. 

sleeve [sicvj n. 

Sleeves are the part of a shirt where your arms go. 

Ryan bought a new shirt with long sleeves to keep his arms warm. 

Spine [spain] n. 

The spine is the bone that runs up and down the middle of the back. 

— Our spine helps us to stand up nice and straight. 

Stain [stein] n. 

A stain is a dirty mark that is difficult to clean. 

He had a red stain on the collar of his shirt. 

Strip [strip] n. 

A strip is a long, narrow piece of material or land. 

-* He had long strips of film that held images of his trip abroad. 

SWear [swear] v. 

To swear means to promise to do something. 

-+ / will put my hand on the Bible and swear to do my best for the country. 

Swing [swig] v. 

To swing something means to move it back and forth or from side to side. 
-» He can swing a golf club very powerfully. 

utilize [ju :talaiz] v. 

To utilize something means to use it for a specific purpose. 

-» They utilized a pair of scissors to cut the ribbon. 


183 


e 


RCMT A Choose the right word for the given definition. 

1. clothes that need to be washed 

a. spine b. appliance c. laundry 


2. easy to break 
a. emerge 


b. delicate 


c. basin 


3. a brush with a long handle used for cleaning floors 


a. handicap 


b. broom 


4. to promise something 

a. swear b. hop 

5. not wanting to do something 

a. sleeve b. stain 


c. strip 


c. utilize 


c. caterpillar 


d. cupboard 
d. pursue 
d. hook 
d. swing 
d. reluctant 


B Choose the right definition for the given word. 


1. pursue 

a. a bone in the middle of the back 
c. to come out of something 


b. a bowl for washing things 
d. to chase after something 


2. appliance 

a. a piece of equipment used in the home 

b. a section of cloth used to cover a floor 

c. a wooden box used for storing things 

d. a dirty mark that is difficult to clean 


3. utilize 

a. to jump a short distance 

c. to move something back and forth 

4. handicap 

a. a curved metal for holding things 
c. a promise to do something 


b. an insect that looks like a worm 

d. to use something for a specific purpose 


b. something that is easy to break 
d. a condition that limits abilities 


5. swing 

a. to move something back and forth b. a curved piece of metal 

c. a brush with a long handle d. clothes that need to be washed 


184 





e 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. Some animals, such as insects, do not have a bone in the middle of the back . 


2. John filled the bowl for was hi ng th ings with water so he could wash his face. 


3. She was hungry so she looked for a snack in the fu rniture where food is kept . 


4. The rabbit jumped away from the hunter’s dogs. 


5. The swimmer came out of the dirty river covered in dark brown water. 


6. Mary put her flowers in a pot and then hung it from a curved piece of metal. 


7. The insect that looks like a worm eats the leaves on a tree. 


8. William used a long, narrow piece of cloth to tie the sticks together. 


9. The baseball player rolled up the pieces of material that cover his arms so they 
wouldn’t get dirty. 


10. We tried using soap and hot water but couldn’t get the dirty mark out of my jacket. 



The Kitten and the Caterpillar 

Katie the kitten liked to play. One day, Cory the caterpillar emerged from a hole in 
the wall while Katie was playing in the living room. 

“Hey!” Katie yelled. “Do you want to play with me?” 

Cory was reluctant. He said, “I’d rather not play with you. I have several handicaps. 
My body is very delicate. Your claws are as sharp as hooks. You might cut me. Plus, I 
have no bones, not even a spine. You could easily hurt me.” 

“I swear that I won’t hurt you,” Katie said. 

“No, I don’t want to,” he said again. He hopped from the wall, but Katie pursued 
him. 

Cory ran into the kitchen and into the cupboard, but Katie chased closely behind. 
Katie knocked appliances to the floor. Plates fell into the sink and broke in the basin. 

Then he ran into a bedroom. Some laundry was on the floor. Cory hid under a shirt, 
but Katie saw him. She jumped on the shirt. Her paws left stains on the cloth, and her 
claws ripped the sleeves into strips. 

However, Cory escaped. He utilized a small crack in the floor to hide. But Katie saw 
him. 

“Now you are trapped!” said Katie. 

Cory tried to avoid Katie’s claws. He moved his body as far into the hole as possible. 
He didn’t know how he’d get out of the hole. 

just then, Katie’s owner came home. She saw that the house was a mess. She took a 
broom and swung it at Katie. She chased Katie out of the house. 

Cory was safe, and Katie was left outside because she didn’t listen to the wishes of 
others. 


\PCM\! A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Katie pursued Cory around the house. 


2 . The caterpillar had only one bone, his spine. 


3. Katie swore not to hurt Cory. 


4. Cory hopped off the counter and ran into the cupboard. 


5. Katie’s dirty paws stained the shirt. 


6. Katie’s owner chased Katie out of the house. 


B Answer the questions. 

1. Which is NOT a reason that Cory was reluctant about playing with Katie? 

a. Katie had dirty paws. b. Katie had sharp claws. 

c. His body was delicate. d. He had several handicaps. 

2. Where was Katie playing when Cory emerged from the wall? 

a. On the counter b. In some laundry 

c. In the living room d. In the kitchen 

3. Katie did all of the following damage EXCEPT . 


a. knock appliances on the floor 
c. crack the kitchen door 

b. break plates in the basin 

d. rip the sleeves of a shirt into strips 

4. What did Katie’s owner swing at her? 
a. A broom 
c. Appliances 

b. A shirt 
d. Laundry 


187 







Indoor Sports 


* 


K 

rfc 




ft 1 


basketball boxing martial arts ping-pong wrestling yoga 


Outdoor Sports 


P 




4 

A 



%? 

>; 


,7 *! 


archery baseball football soccer tennis volleyball 


Winter Sports 


^ 


ice skating 


skiing snowboarding 


ANIMALS 


Desert 









Rain Forest 


camel coyote lizard mountain lion scorpion vulture 

VIth 

alligator flamingo gorilla hummingbird panther parrot 


r 


“\ 


Grasslands 






i 



buffalo giraffe hippopotamus hyena 

Polar Lands 


ostrich rhinoceros 


) ,k:j 3 A If 

otter penguin polar bear reindeer seal wolf 



Sea 






blowfish jellyfish octopus sea horse sea urchin 




< V ★ 


seagull shark 


squid 


starfish whale 


Woodlands 


* \ 


t/* 


beaver bobcat 


deer 


mole opossum 







porcupine robin 


skunk squirrel woodpecker 





Bugs 

M 

4^ '-/K 



beetle 

butterfly dragonfly 

caterpillar 

cricket 

e 



Hi 

firefly 

grasshopper ladybug 

mosquito 

moth 

Baby Animals 

bird -* nestling 

chicken -► chick • cow* 

calf 

dog pup 

duck-* duckling 

fish fry frog^ 

tadpole 

• horse-* foal 

pig piglet 

^ . . 

sheep ■* lamb 


===— > 


FOOD 


- A 



4 

& 

apple pie 

cereal 

fish and chips 

french fries 

hamburger 

-XT 


♦ 


; \3^ 

hot dog 

ice cream cone 

salad 

sandwich 

taco 


1 


FRUITS 




m 


apricot 

avocado 

cherry 

coconut fig 

grapefruit 

peach 

4a 

pear 

i • 

pineapple pomegranate 



NUTS 


*• 

almond chestnut 

pecan pine nuts 


•f 

hazel nut 



pistachio 



peanut 



MEAT, POULTRY, AND SEAFOOD 








bacon 


beef 




chicken 


... , 

- * 


crab 


lobster 




- 


oyster 


pork 


salmon 


sausage shrimp 







k 



abandon 44 

abnormal 68 

aboard 80 

aborigine 140 

absence 62 

accommodate 134 

accustomed 128 

ache 170 

acknowledge 164 

acquaint 32 

acquire 14 

adolescent ••• 98 

affair 92 

affection •• 104 

affirm 128 

agency 104 

ail • 56 

alert •• 38 

alley- ■ 20 

ally 56 

aloud 62 

alter 158 

ambassador 164 

ambitious 44 

anniversary- 50 

anticipate 74 

appliance 182 

apprentice 86 

aptitude ■ 98 

arctic 170 

arise 8 

arithmetic- 50 

armor 110 

ash • 104 

ashamed 50 

aside • 158 

assembly 92 

assure - 86 

astonished 128 

autumn • 158 

awkward 14 

ax 20 


B 


baggage 146 

bald 62 

bamboo 68 

ban 140 

bandage 86 

bang 128 

bark 44 

barrel 74 

basin - 182 

bay 44 

beam 74 

bench - 116 

beneath *• 122 

benefactor --• 8 

bitter 80 

blacksmith 8 

blanket •••■ 62 

blaze- 110 

bleed 86 

blend - 158 

bless • 92 

blonde 164 

bloom • 26 

blossom • 68 

boast 56 

bomb • 176 

bond 86 

boom 110 

bounce 56 

brilliant 44 

broadcast • 38 

broom 182 

bulb 146 

bullet 80 

bulletin- 38 

bully 56 

bump 38 

bunch 20 

bundle 146 

burst 50 


c 


canal 170 

carbohydrate 56 

caretaker 14 

carpenter 50 

casual 74 

caterpillar 182 

cattle 146 

caution ----- 74 

cautious 140 

cemetery 32 

cereal 92 

certificate 176 

charitable 8 

cheerful- 92 

chef 86 

chemist ••••■ 170 

chill- 170 

chimney- 8 

chin ■ - 44 

chop 38 

chore - - 20 

circulate 152 

circumstance 176 

circus 134 

clan- 128 

cliff 110 

closet 38 

coal- 50 

coffin 176 

coincide • 134 

collapse • 158 

commission 134 

compact 26 

compass 68 

compensate 8 

complaint 44 

compliment 98 

confess - 140 

confine 104 

confront 116 

congress 170 

conquer 164 

consequent- 152 


console 38 

contrary 74 

cope 176 

cottage 140 

couch 50 

crawl 56 

creep 62 

criticism 176 

crown 86 

crush 158 

cub 122 

cupboard 182 

curl 26 

curse ••••• 32 

curve 158 


□ 

dairy 170 

daisy • 116 

dawn- 122 

daytime 140 

deaf 44 

decay 26 

deceive • 14 

decent- 20 

defeat • 56 

deliberate 74 

delicate 182 

departure 86 

derive • 152 

descend 170 

desperate 140 

dessert 26 

devastate 176 

devil 80 

dial 56 

dialect 68 

diameter 92 

diligent 86 

dim -• 128 

dip - 26 

discourage 14 

disgrace 20 


193 





disguise 32 

disgusting 158 

dishonest 68 

dismiss 104 

dispute 116 

dissatisfied 122 

dissolve 74 

distant 26 

district 38 

divorce 62 

dominant 56 

dose 134 

drag 164 

drain 158 

drawer 38 

drift 80 

drip 50 

drown 152 

dwarf 68 

dye 134 

dynasty 152 


E 


ease 122 

eclipse 26 

ecosystem 68 

elbow 20 

elegant 50 

embrace 158 

emerge 182 

emperor 86 

emphasis 128 

encounter 8 

endure 38 

enforce 80 

enthusiastic 44 

envy 159 

erupt 104 

evident 122 

exaggerate 164 

exceed 8 

execute 39 

expedition 44 


explode 74 

exploit 92 

extent- 134 



fable 128 

fabric so 

fade 140 

fairy 26 

fake 14 

famine 92 

fancy 32 

fasten 74 

fatal 68 

fate 104 

feast 128 

fiber 87 

fierce 140 

fireworks 159 

flame 110 

flashlight 32 

flee 146 

flour 159 

forge 8 

fountain so 

fraction 152 

frost 152 

frown 176 

fuse 159 


G 


gamble 140 

gaze 176 

gender 134 

germ 75 

ginger 159 

glance 176 

glow- 128 

grace 26 

grasp 39 

grateful 20 

graze 146 


greed 146 

grief 177 

grocer 170 

groom 177 


H 


hail 122 

handicap 182 

harbor so 

harvest 92 

hatred 14 

headline 134 

herd 146 

heritage 164 

hesitate 170 

highlands 51 

hinder 98 

hollow 129 

hood 32 

hOOk 182 

hop 182 

horizon 45 

horrible 87 

horror 116 

howl 122 

humble 8 

hut 14 



illusion 152 

imitate 62 

impatient 68 

impolite 87 

incident 116 

independence 110 

infant 62 

inferior 14 

informal 134 

inhabit 80 

inhabitant 32 

initiate 146 

inquire 135 


instinct 129 

institution 171 

insult 164 

invade 152 

invasion 110 

iron 9 

irritate 20 

ivory 51 


I 


jealous 159 

jog 171 

joint 129 

journalism 98 

jury 98 

justice 98 


K 


kid 20 

kidnap 62 

kit 75 

kneel 87 

knight no 



ladder 9 

lane 146 

laundry 183 

lava 104 

lawn 141 

leaf 69 

leak 129 

leap 122 

leisure 27 

liberty 98 

license 177 

lieutenant 152 

lightning 110 

literary 98 

lodge 14 

loose 21 


194 










loyal- 45 

luggage 146 

luxury- 87 



magnificent- 122 

mankind- 27 

manuscript - 69 

marine 153 

marsh- 69 

massive- 87 

mayor--- 45 

meanwhile 164 

merchant 171 

mercy 57 

merit •• 153 

merry 92 

messenger 135 

microscope • 177 

mill 51 

millionaire 81 

miserable - 104 

mist 116 

modest 9 

mow 141 

mutual 45 


N 


nap 62 

navigate 104 

navy 153 

necessity 123 

necklace • 164 

needle 51 

neglect 15 

nerve ----- 147 

newcomer 15 

noble • 165 

nod-- 57 

nourish- 32 

nowhere 63 


nuclear 177 

nut 93 

□ 

object- 116 

occupy- 9 

offend 21 

offense 15 

opponent 57 

optimist- 147 

originate 105 

orphan ■ 116 

outcome 123 

outlaw-* 141 

overlook 15 

overnight- 21 

overweight- 45 



panic 87 

parade 147 

pardon 93 

passion 27 

paste - 159 

pat 63 

patience 69 

pave -••• 147 

peer 135 

penny- 9 

perfume - 69 

persist 21 

phantom 147 

pharaoh- 93 

pharmacy 98 

physician- 129 

pile 123 

pill- 99 

pillow- 27 

pine 21 

pirate 32 

plot- 116 


poke 171 

polar 153 

polish- 51 

pond 69 

port 81 

portable 147 

portrait 135 

portray 177 

pose •• 135 

poster 147 

postpone- 171 

preach- 9 

precious • 165 

pregnant 117 

prejudice ••••••*••-• 165 

presume-- 99 

priority • 87 

privacy 99 

profound -123 

prospect- 141 

prosper 9 

proverb 69 

province 9 

publication- 33 

puff- 75 

pulse 27 

punishment 99 

purse 141 

pursue 183 

pursuit • 69 


0 


quarrel 57 


R 


rag 75 

rage 117 

ranch 135 

ray 153 

rear- 39 

rebel 110 



receipt- 159 

recite 69 

refresh- 27 

refuge 45 

relief 63 

reluctant- • 183 

remainder 105 

repay- 15 

reproduce 63 

resign 153 

restore 45 

retreat- - 111 

retrieve- 105 

revenge 117 

revolution 111 

rhyme •• 63 

riddle -- 33 

ridiculous ---■ 15 

ripe- 93 

rival 57 

roast •• 93 

robe 87 

rod 141 

rot • 33 

rotate • 177 

routine 93 

rub 45 

rumor 165 


s 


sacrifice- 129 

satisfaction •- 9 

satisfactory 15 

scar 21 

scared- 33 

scatter 75 

scent 75 

scheme • 93 

scold 87 

scratch 147 

seize-- 123 

seldom 141 

senator- 39 








sensation 21 

senses 45 

sensible 99 

sew 51 

shallow 105 

shame 117 

shave 141 

shed 51 

shepherd 15 

sheriff si 

shortly 33 

sigh 117 

sin 165 

skeleton 33 

skull 39 

sled 21 

sleeve 183 

slice 99 

slim 93 

slope 105 

sneak 117 

sneeze 27 

sore 57 

sorrow 99 

souvenir 177 

span 105 

spare 117 

spear 111 

spectacle 165 

spice 27 

spine 183 

splash 171 

spoil 33 

squeeze 123 

stack 165 

stain 183 

startle 81 

starve 33 

steel 75 

steep 111 

steer 135 

stem 117 

stiff 129 

sting 57 

stir 39 


stove 93 

strain 57 

straw • 99 

Strip 183 

stripe 135 

stroke 129 

stubborn 171 

submarine 177 

suburb 171 

suck 63 

suicide 153 

summit 111 

superstition 105 

supper 117 

supreme 123 

SUSpiciOUS 165 

sustain 9 

swear 183 

sweat 8i 

swell 99 

swift 75 

Swing 183 

sympathy 105 

symphony 147 


□ 


tame 

135 

tap 

39 

tease 

21 

tempt 

135 

tender 

117 

terrific 

123 

terrified 

141 

theft 

93 

thread 

51 

thrill 

33 

thunder 

111 

tide 

171 

tidy 

99 

tin 

165 

torture 

57 

toss 

75 

trace 

... 177 


tragedy 171 

tragic 129 

trait 123 

tremble 153 

tremendous 39 

trigger 8i 

trim 51 

triumph 75 

troops 111 

tune 129 


U 


underlying 153 

underneath 39 

unify 8i 

upwards si 

urgent 63 

utilize 183 


wire 159 

withdraw m 

wizard 141 

wool 27 

worm 39 

worship 8i 

wrestle 57 

wrinkle 63 


□ 


yield 

Ill 



valentine • 

vanish 

vase 

venture 

vessel 

veterinarian 

via 

vibrate 

vital 

voyage 


21 

63 

165 

15 

81 

45 

153 

105 

123 

81 


W 


wagon 63 

wander 105 

warrior m 

wheat 15 

whistle 27 

wicked 33 

widow 147 

wilderness 69 

wipe 159 