4000 Essential English Words 4 

Paul Nation 

® 2009 Compass Publishing 

All rights reserved. No pan of this book may be reproduced, stored in a 
retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, 
mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without prior 
permission in writing From the publisher. 

Acquisitions Editor. Fidel Cruz 
Project Coordinator; Annie C ho 
Destgn: Design Plus 

email: info@compdsspob.com 
http 7/ www.compasspub.com 

ISBN: 973-1-599oo-*05-7 

10 9 $ 7 o 5 a 3 2 1 
12 II 10 09 


Photo Credits 

Alt images U Shutterstock, Inc. except: p. 180 O iStock International Inc. 







4000 Essential English Words 4 


4000 Essential English Words 4 

Paul Nation 

© 2009 Compass Publishing 

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, stored in a 
retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, 
mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without prior 
permission in writing from the publisher. 

9 

Acquisitions Editor: Fidel Cruz 
Project Coordinator: Annie Cho 
Design: Design Plus 

email: info@compasspub.com 
http://www.compasspub.com 

ISBN: 978-1-59966-405-7 

10 98765432 
12 11 


Photo Credits 

All images © Shutterstock, Inc. except: p. 180 © iStock International Inc. 









aroma, beverage, cluster, combine, condensed, contemporary, cultivate, divine, humid, 
odor, palate, paradise, plantation, rapid, rate, soothing, subtle, texture, toxic, vary ,


accident, admiral, arc, character, conscience, fiery, flesh, grapefruit, hay, horrified, 
kerosene, loop, paddle, raft, sour, stake, steward, string, thorn, wreck ,

admonish, audible, awesome, beware, brag, conscious, disagree, echo, eventual, hint, 
idiot, immense, indirect, option, pastime, perfect, pinpoint, switch, thorough, torment ,

beak, damp, disapprove, except, flight, fond, immoral, ivy, moan, oblivious, perish, pit, 
rim, roost, slippery, soar, trivial, typical, utterly, weep ,

awhile, cyberspace, edit, essay, evaluate, faint, global, gymnasium, highlight, ignorant, 
index, lecture, moral, operate, private, recent, resolution, semester, typewritten, weird ,


absolute, alas, attentive, cape, envision, evenly, folk, melt, patch, pleasure, pop, 
pudding, rail, recipe, role, shrink, soak, spark, spirit, suit ,

account, architect, conceal, crime, deed, gratitude, habitat, intervene, landmark, legal, 
memorable, oblige, offence, proclaim, rally, resolve, resource, sentence, volunteer, witness ,


access, conduct, constant, crack, device, enclose, grip, halt, impending, influence, law, 
mode, perspire, replace, snap, sly, tend, valid, version, whatsoever ,

alongside, appetite, assist, breeze, defy, display, efficient, feeble, forgive, lively, majestic, 
nor, outraged, pessimistic, rumor, slap, smash, subject, wage, whereas ,

animate, classify, concede, concept, construct, decade, diagram, ferry, handy, isolate, longing, 
numerous, particle, plea, refrain, review, sophisticated, surrender, upright, worthwhile ,

alliance, applause, armed, authoritative, ceremony, culture, defense, detail, diverse, 
enchant, equip, exception, genre, impact, lure, obstacle, shelter, sort, supply, vain ,

alternative, avenue, belly, bid, blow, conflict, continent, current, disrespect, enthusiasm, 
harsh, lean, meantime, mischief, muscle, rescue, succession, terrain, timid, violence ,

affect, autograph, bead, brew, charm, destiny, horn, irritable, lag, maximize, nightmare, 
nutritious, protein, signature, stuff, subconscious, van, warn, workout, zoom ,

brick, crumble, dough, express, fist, flexible, flush, injure, lump, mixture, reconcile, ruin, 
shatter, shutter, sift, slight, sparkle, sprinkle, stale, utter ,

although, apply, await, beloved, bury, climate, complain, confuse, due, entire, establish, 
furnace, leash, mature, measure, midst, misery, prior, research, variety ,

 

altogether, bind, bruise, custom, disobedient, foresee, glimpse, hoop, misfortune, 
negative, per, plead, rip, sake, scrape, source, stern, stitch, thump, vehement ,

civilization, convenient, den, dew, drastic, exit, flock, fold, lid, loom, mighty, mushroom, 
native, poison, reed, shield, stormy, sway, urban, wade ,

accent, barber, basement, blank, blink, choir, comic, complicate, decline, errand, glove, 
hermit, justly, leather, ponder, reserve, script, search, slam, staircase ,

afflicted, aisle , atmosphere, author, breakdown, cargo, chapter, connect, etc., flip, idle, 
notify, pea, raisin, retain, state, tray, unfortunate, vivid, vomit ,

betray, blast, bracelet, cease, choke, civil, comment, cross, dent, distrust, fort, found, 
lining, mass, pray, rife, sole, sweep, treachery, tuck ,

background, bait, chronicle, copper, disease, folklore, infect, itch, literature, millennium, 
myth, promote, relate, religion, sum, teller, trustworthy, update, vein, venom ,

charity, commerce, condemn, cozy, deplete, economy, empire, goods, heed, hitchhike, 
mock, neutral, persecute, pity, reduce, scribe, temper, throne, unity, victor ,

accurate, analyze, asteroid, controversy, evolve, factor, genetic, genome, identical, intellectual, 
majority, mammal, multiply, offspring, pesticide, regulate, reinforce, stricken, vast, vegetarian ,

cherish, compassion, consent, core, cunning, dizzy, equilibrium, foster, grind, growl, 
moderation, predator, sane, saucer, snatch, stagger, stumble, tense, tumble, withhold ,

aircraft, celebrity, concrete, decisive, esteemed, ethical, extinct, hardy, institute, jealousy, 
migrate, nurture, overhead principle, rural, secluded, species, swamp, traverse, zoology ,

assumption, barley, beast, colonel, contagious, corpse, crisis, cure, deformed, discriminate, 
embassy, extinguish, flint, harass, integrate, miniature, nutrition, promptly, technician, tropics ,

beneficial, birthplace, capacity, comparative, comprehensive, conserve, crucial, cumulative, deposit,  
distribute, equator, exotic, federal, formation, frequency, objective, oxygen, rainforest, strategy, wooded ,

avail, expand, define, dread, fundamental, horrifying, incredulous, linger, organism, 
paraphrase, plague, presently, random, riot, scribble, shrine, solitude, stark, summon, worsen ,

automobile, candidate, confidential, corporate, enhance, era, guideline, incorporate, interact, interval, 
mobile, modify, parallel, phenomenon, pollute, ridicule, solar, territory, tournament, transportation ,

bill, boundary, chaos, consistent, cyclone, doomed, heir, martial, organic, poultry, 
scramble, sergeant, sheer, stance, telegraph, textile, tornado, typhoon, wail, wardrobe 


 

About the Vocabulary 

The 600 words in each book of this series along with the additional target words 
presented in the appendices included in the first three books of the series are the most 
useful words in English. They were found by analysis of a collection of English course 
books from various levels in the primary, secondary and tertiary school systems. The 
words included in this series were chosen because they occurred many times in different 
levels of these materials. Because of the way 
that they were chosen, these words have the following characteristics: 

1 They are useful in both spoken and written English. No matter what English course 
you are studying, the words in these books will be of value to you. 

2 Each word in these books is a high-frequency word. This means that the effort in 
learning the words is well repaid by the number of times learners have a chance to 
encounter or use them. 

3 These books as a whole cover a large proportion of the words in any spoken or written 
text. They cover at least 80% of the words in newspapers and academic texts, and 

at least 90% of the words in novels. They also cover at least 90% of the words in 
conversation. 


About the Books 

The activities in these books are specially designed to make use of important learning 
conditions. Firstly, the words are introduced using sentence definitions and an example 
sentence. The activities that follow in the units encourage learners to recall the meanings 
and forms of the words. Some activities also make the learners think about the meaning 
of the words in the context of a sentence — a sentence different from the sentences that 
occurred in the introduction of the words. Moreover, each unit ends with a story containing 
the target words. While reading the story, the learners have to recall the meanings of the 
words and suit them to the context of the story. Such activities help learners develop a 
better understanding of a common meaning for a given word which fits the different uses. 

Illustrations for each target word are provided to help learners visualize the word as it 
is being used in the example sentence. These word/image associations aim to help 
students grasp the meaning of the word as well as recall the word later. 


6 



It should be noted that words have more than one grammatical category. However, this 
series focuses on the word’s most common form. This is mentioned to remind learners 
that just because a word is labeled and utilized as a noun in this series does not mean 
that it can never be used in another form such as an adjective. This series has simply 
focused on the word in the form that it is most likely to be expressed. 


Supporting Learning with Outside Activities 

A well-balanced language course provides four major opportunities for learning: learning 

through input, learning through output, deliberate learning, and fluency development. The 

highly structured activities in these books support all four types of learning opportunities. 

In addition, learning can further be supported through the following activities: 

1 Have students create vocabulary cards with one word from the unit on one side of the 
card and the translation of the word in the student’s first language on the other side. 
Students should use the cards for study in free moments during the day. Over several 
weeks, students will find that quick repeated studying for brief periods of time is more 
effective than studying for hours at one sitting. 

2 Assign graded readers at students’ appropriate levels. Reading such books provides 
both enjoyment as well as meaning-focused input which will help the words stick in 
students’ memory. 

3 Practice reading fluency to promote faster recall of word meaning for both sight 
recognition and usage. Compass Publishing’s Reading for Speed and Fluency is a 
good resource for reading fluency material. 

4 Include listening, speaking, and writing activities in classes. Reinforcement of the 
high-frequency vocabulary presented in this series is important across all the four 
language skills. 


Author Paul Nation 

Paul Nation is professor of Applied Linguistics in the School of Linguistics and Applied Language Studies 
at Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand. He has taught in Indonesia, Thailand, the United States, 
Finland, and japan. His specialist interests are language teaching methodology and vocabulary learning. 





aroma [arouma] n. 

An aroma is a scent or smell. 

— I love the aroma of coffee in the morning. 

beverage [beveridj] n. 

A beverage is a drink. 

— ■ The waiter brought our beverages first. Then he brought our food. 

cluster [klAstar] n. 

A cluster of things is a small group of them placed close together. 

-» She held a large cluster of grapes in her hand. 

combine [kambain] v. 

To combine is to join together to make a single thing or group. 

— Mina combined peanut butter and jelly to make a sandwich. 

condensed [kandenst] adj. 

When a liquid is condensed, it is made thicker. 

— One way to make a dessert thick and sweet is to use condensed milk. 

contemporary [kantempareri] adj. 

When something is contemporary, it is related to the present time. 

— Contemporary scientists have learned quite a bit about DNA. 

cultivate [kAltaveit] v. 

To cultivate plants is to care for them and help them grow. 

— A research company is cultivating new kinds of rice to aid poor countries. 

divine [divain] adj. 

When something is divine, it is related to gods. 

— Legends say that music was given to men as a divine gift from the gods. 

humid [/7ju:mid] adj. 

When it is humid, there is a lot of water in the air. 

— It is very humid inside of a sauna. 

odor loud a/1 n. 

An odor is a very distinct smell. 

— He knew there was a leak when he noticed the strong odor of natural gas. 


8 


palate [paelitl n. 

The palate is the top part of the mouth. 

— You can touch your palate with your tongue. 

paradise [paeradais] n. 

Paradise is the place or condition of happiness where things are perfect. 

— My vacation in Hawaii was like being in paradise. 

plantation [plaenteijan] n. 

A plantation is a big farm that only grows certain kinds of crops. 

-♦ In the 1800s, there were many cotton plantations in the southern US. 

rapid [raepid] adj. 

When something is rapid, it moves or changes very quickly. 

-* His mother was surprised by her son's rapid growth. 

rate [reit] n. 

A rate is the speed at which something happens. 

— Grass tends to grow at a very slow rate. 

soothing [su:dir)l adj. 

When something is soothing, it makes you calm or relaxed. 

— The soothing music helped the baby fall asleep. 

subtle [sAtl] adj. 

When something is subtle, it is not easy to see or notice. 

-♦ The handsome man has a subtle smile. 

texture [tekstfax] n. 

The texture of something is the way its surface looks and feels. 

The texture of a rock found in the water is typically very smooth. 

toxic [taksik] adj. 

When something is toxic, it is poisonous. Toxic things are very dangerous. 
-* Please check the label to see if the product is toxic. 

vary [veari] v. 

To vary means to be different from another thing in size or amount. 

— The heights of the people in my class vary by a large amount. 



Choose the word that is the better fit for each blank. 

1. rapid / rate 

The population growth in the city was incredibly . It is quite surprising 

that people settled there at such a fast . 

2. contemporary / vary 

Many laws make it illegal for business to compete in unfairways. 

However, the specific laws in different countries greatly. 

3. humid /toxic 

Because it is quite on the island, various kinds of plants grow well 

there. However, some of these plants are to humans. 

4. texture / aroma 

The cheese has a smooth . However, some people find it hard to eat 

because of its powerful . 

5. cluster / combined 

A of people suggested that nearby cities could fight the invaders if 

they cooperated with each other. As a result, everyone their efforts and 

defeated the invaders. 

6. soothing / subtle 

The artist uses differences of color in her landscapes. This has an 

overall calming and effect on the viewer. 

7. cultivated / odor 

A huge garden was in the middle of the city. However, a species of rare 

plants gave off an unpleasant . 

8. beverage / palate 

During a four or five course meal, one should drink something to clean the 
between courses. The perfect for this is, of course, water. 

9. condensed / divine 

I can explain the basic story in a simple, way. A boy is given a 

message, and he begins an exciting adventure. 

10. plantations / paradise 

The island of Oahu is not a natural like Maui. However, tourists still 

have plenty to enjoy on Oahu, from visits to pineapple to traditional 

celebrations. 




P/MT A Match the phrases to make complete sentences. 

1. A soothing cup of tea . 

2. The odor of the cheese . 

3. The pot’s texture . 

4. The chemical is toxic . 

5. The contemporary fiction class . 

6. The rate at which these flowers grew . 

7. My mother cultivates . 

8. The plantation had . 

9. The thick and humid forest . 

10. That cluster of stars in the sky makes . 

• a. was surprisingly fast b. includes work from the 21 st century 

: c. feels so smooth d. covered almost a third of the country 

: e. was too strong to be enjoyable f. several species of flowers as a hobby 

: g. to insects and small animals h. twenty workers who grew cotton 

: i. is good fora sore throat j. the shoulder of Taurus the Bull 


GM? B Match the clauses to make complete sentences. 

1. The scientists wanted to find a cure for the sickness, . 

2. He offered to share his water, . 

3. I prefer mocha to coffee . 

4. Many new jobs were created, .. 

5. The report was ten pages long, . 

6. The doctor asked him to open his mouth, . 

7. She walked in the door, . 

8. Because the island is so warm and beautiful, . 

9. Because patients’ bodies are so different, . 

10. It didn’t rain all summer, . 


a. so economic growth was rapid b. 

c. people call it a paradise d. 

e. and she looked at his palate f. 

g. so they combined the chemicals h. 

i. but I wanted my own beverage j. 


and Jim thought it was a divine message 
the effects of the medicine will vary 
and she smelled the aroma of cookies 
because it has a subtle taste of chocolate 
but the condensed version was shorter 



The History of Chocolate 


Many people believe that chocolate originally came from Europe. However, chocolate, 
called the “food of the gods,” was first made in the Americas. The first chocolate was 
very different from contemporary chocolate. 

Wild chocolate trees can grow easily in the humid Amazon rainforest. Clusters of 
flowers growing on these trees turn to seeds. About 20 to 60 cacao beans can be found 
in the seeds. Cacao beans are the ingredient needed to create sweet, soothing, and 
delicious chocolate treats. 

The Mayan and Aztec cultures both thought that chocolate trees were brought from 
paradise by gods. The Mayans and Aztecs used the beans from this divine tree to create 
a special beverage with a very pleasant odor. Surprisingly, the Aztecs believed that it 
would be toxic to women and children. 

In the 1 500s, the Spanish explorer Cortes met the Aztecs. Cortes became quite 
interested in the plantations where the Aztecs cultivated chocolate trees. When he 
returned to Europe, he took cacao beans with him. He introduced the people of Spain to 
the Aztecs’ chocolate beverage. 

Over the next 100 years or so, kings, queens, and members of the upper class 
enjoyed drinking chocolate. They enjoyed it even more once they learned to add sugar 
to the beverage! Soon, chocolate had spread all across Europe. New machines allowed 
chocolate makers to perfect their products and produce them at a very rapid rate. 
Preparing the beans in special ways brought out the aroma of chocolate. The beans were 
combined with condensed milk to give the chocolate a smooth texture. 

Today, contemporary chocolates with subtle flavors fill the shelves of expensive 
chocolate shops. The different types of chocolate 







MMT A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Wild chocolate trees grow well in humid weather. 


2. The Mayans and Aztecs said chocolate was a divine plant brought from paradise. 


3. The Mayans cultivated chocolate trees on plantations. 


4. Beans were combined with condensed milk to give chocolate a smooth texture. 


5. The first chocolate beverages were made in Europe. 


6. The different types of chocolate available today vary widely. 


KMF B Answer the questions. 

1. Which word is NOT used to describe chocolate in the reading? 

a. Aroma b. Delicious 

c. Soothing d. Sweet 

2. Which of the following did NOT consume chocolate as a beverage? 

a. Cortes b. Europeans in the 1500s 

c. Mayan gods d. The Aztecs 

3. Which group of people believed that chocolate was toxic to women and children? 

a. Chocolate makers b. Plantation owners 

c. The upper class in Europe d. The Aztecs 

4. What allowed chocolate to be produced at a rapid rate? 

a. Cortes of Spain b. Cacao beans 

c. New machines d. Kings and queens 





accident [seksidsnt] n. 

An accident is an unexpected undesirable event. 

She had to go to the hospital after she was in a serious car accident. 

admiral feamarai] n. 

An admiral is someone who controls many military ships. 

-» They won the sea battle because of the admiral’s great leadership. 

arc [a;rk] n. 

An arc is a curved shape. 

-» A rainbow has the shape of an arc. 

character [kEerikter] n. 

Your character is your personality. 

— My sister’s character is fun and very outgoing. 

conscience [kdnjsns] n. 

Your conscience is your inner sense of what is right and wrong. 

-» I recycle everything I can , so my conscience is clear! 

fiery [faisri] adj. 

If something is fiery, it is burning strongly. 

-» The fiery blaze burned all night long. 

flesh [flej] n. 

Flesh is the skin, muscle and fat on your body. 

— The zebra’s flesh has black and white stripes. 

grapefruit [greipfru :t] n. 

A grapefruit is a fruit similar to an orange, but bigger and not as sweet. 

— Would you like a grapefruit with your breakfast? 

hay [hei] n. 

Hay is dry grass used to feed animals or used as a covering. 

— I need to buy some more hay for the horse to sleep on. 

horrified [hoirafaid] adj. 

If you are horrified, you are very shocked and feel upset. 

-* I was horrified when I read about the old lady who was attacked. 



14 







kerosene tkereskn] n. 

Kerosene is a type of oil. It is used in some lamps and stoves. 

— Many people in poor countries cook on kerosene stoves. 

loop [lu:p] n. 

A loop is a line made into the shape of a circle. 

-* He made a loop with the rope and placed it over the post. 

paddle [paedl] n. 

A paddle is a piece of wood or plastic that moves a boat across water. 

— We need a paddle to help us move across the water. 

raft [raeft] n. 

A raft is a floating platform made from pieces of wood tied together. 

-> The man made a raft out of bamboo and floated out to sea. 

SOlir [saua:/-] adj. 

When something is sour, it has a sharp and unpleasant taste. 

-* / don’t like lemons because I think they are too sour. 

Stake [steik] n. 

A stake is a small, sharp piece of wood or metal that is put into the ground. 
-» We marked our property by placing stakes into the ground. 

Steward [syTr.ard] n. 

A steward is a person like a waiter who serves food on planes and ships. 

— The steward is bringing some tea. 

String [strip] n. 

String is a thin piece of fabric or rope. 

-* / found a large ball of string. 

thorn [eo :rn] n. 

A thorn is a sharp part of a plant. 

-» Be careful of the thorns when you pick the roses! 

wreck [rek] V. 

To wreck something means to destroy or ruin it. 

-* The teenagers wrecked the house for no reason at all. 


5 





P/M'U’ A Choose the right definition for the given word. 


1. thorn 

a. a sharp part on a plant 
c. someone who serves food 

2. arc 

a. a thin rope 
c. a circle in a rope 

3. raft 

a. a waiter 
c. on fire 

4. hay 
a. oil 

c. a piece of wood in the ground 

5. character 

a. where something is bought 
c. difficulties 


b. a captain on a ship 

d. a piece of wood that moves a boat 

b. a part of your mind 
d. a curved shape 

b. an undesirable event 
d. a floating platform 

b. dry grass 
d. a fruit 


b. personality 
d. skin and muscle 


PAR'D’ B Choose the right word 

for the given definition. 

l. 

a piece of wood in the ground 



a. admiral 

b. flesh 


c. stake 

d. loop 

2. 

frightened 



a. wrecked 

b. horrified 


c. fiery 

d. sour 

3. 

a curved shape 



a. arc 

b. hay 


c. kerosene 

d. string 

4. 

part of your mind that stops you from doing bad things 


a. character 

b. conscience 


c. accident 

d. steward 

5. 

something you use to move a boat 



a. thorn 

b. raft 


c. grapefruit 

d. paddle 



Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. Tom was promoted, and now he is an im portant sea officer that controls military sh ips. 


2. Some people thought that the meal was too sharp and unpleasan t tasting. 


3. The oil in la m ps and stoves is a very cheap form of heat. 


4. Why did you steal the woman’s bag? Don’t you have a mind that understands what is 
wrong ? 


5. Can you buy three yello w pieces of fruit that are [ ik e oranges from the supermarket 
please? 


6. I hope that the waiter on the plane will bring some water soon. 


7. After lightning struck the tree, the forest turned into a burning blaze. 


8. Use this thin rope to tie the package. 


9. I cleaned the rabbit’s cage and left some dry grass for it to eat. 


10. I threw the ball through the line in the shape o f a circle . 





Fill in the blanks with the correct words from the word bank. 



character accident flesh stake wreck 


1. I’m going to tie the cow to a in the ground. 

2. You shouldn’t eat the chicken. The is still pink. 

3. New drivers are more likely to their cars than experienced drivers. 

A. Many people were hurt in the boating . 

5. My brother has a very friendly and cheerful . 






_ 


- 


Monkey Island 



In the middle of the ocean, there is a small island shaped like an arc. Here, monkeys 
play on the beach and in the trees. But how did the monkeys get there? 

Once, an English admiral was exploring Africa when he found hundreds of monkeys. 
The admiral’s character was mean. He thought, “I could sell these monkeys and become 
very rich! I’m going to take them to England.” 

So the admiral set traps to catch the monkeys. He put stakes in the ground, tied 
string around them and made loops in the string. When the monkeys ran through the 
forest, their feet got caught in the loops, and they couldn’t escape. Then the admiral put 
the monkeys in cages on his ship and sailed away. 

The cages were small and uncomfortable. There was no soft hay for the monkeys to 
sleep on. Instead, they slept on branches with sharp thorns that cut into the monkeys’ 
flesh. For dinner, he gave them tiny pieces of sour grapefruit to eat. The monkeys grew 
hungry and weak. 

But one day, the admiral hired a new steward. He was a kind man with a good 
conscience. He was horrified to see the thin monkeys in the cages. So one night he let 
them out. 

The monkeys ran and played all over the ship! They attacked the admiral and the 
steward and ate their food. They completely wrecked the ship. One monkey ran into a 
kerosene lamp, and it fell over. The ship caught fire and began to sink! The whole crew 
was lost except for the monkeys. 

After the accident, the monkeys jumped onto a raft. They floated away from the fiery 
blaze of the ship. In the morning, they saw a little island in the distance. The monkeys 

used a piece of wood as a paddle, and they 
went toward it. They found the 

island shaped like an arc. They 
felt so happy to find a 
— new home, and 


they still live 
there today. 






P/MT i Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The admiral thought that selling the monkeys would make him rich. 


2. The admiral caught the monkeys using loops of string and stakes. 


3. The admiral put hay in the monkeys’ cages. 


4. The steward had no conscience. 


5. The admiral was horrified because the monkeys were muscular. 


6. The monkeys jumped on a raft after the accident. 


B Answer the questions. 

1. Which adjective describes the admiral’s character? 

a. Generous b. Mean 

c. Sour d. Fiery 

2. Where did the admiral plan to take the monkeys? 

a. To the wrecked ship b. To England 

c. To an island d. To Africa 


3. What did the monkeys eat while they were in the cages? 

a. Thorns b. Hay 

c. Grapefruit d. Flesh 

4. What shape was the island that the monkeys found? 

a. A paddle b. An arc 

c. A circle d. A rope 



admonish [asdmdnij] v. 

To admonish someone is to tell them you disapprove of their behavior. 

-» The teacher admonished Mark because he was chewing gum in class. 

audible [6 :dabl] adj. 

If something is audible, then it is able to be heard. 

-♦ The sound of the drums was audible from miles away. 

awesome [oisam] adj. 

If something or someone is awesome, they are impressive or frightening. 
- The huge military plane was an awesome sight. 


beware [biwear] * 

To beware means to be careful of something or someone that is dangerous. 

- You should beware of driving fast on wet roads. 

brag [braeg] v. 

To brag means to talk of one’s abilities or achievements in a proud way. 

He had strong muscles and bragged about it to the entire class. 

Conscious [kanjas] adj. 

If someone is conscious of something, then they are aware of it. 

The new student was conscious of the other students staring at her. 

disagree [disagn:] V. 

To disagree with someone means to have a different opinion from them. 

The lawyers disagreed about the best way to settle the case. 

echo [ekou] v. 

To echo means that a sound repeats itself because it bounced off an object. 
The child yelled over the canyon, and the wall echoed the sound. 

eventual [iventfual] adj. 

If something is eventual, it will happen at the end of a series of events. 

— The constant training and planning led the team to an eventual victory. 

hint [hint] n. 

A hint is information that suggests something will happen or is true. 

-» / quietly passed on a hint to my sister about the test. 





idiot [idist] n. 

An idiot is a person who is not smart or who has done something silly. 

-* Because he got lost in the forest, the man felt like an idiot. 

immense [imens] adj. 

If something is immense, it is very large. 

-* An immense amount of money was needed to buy such a large boat. 

indirect [indirekt] adj. 

If something is indirect, then it is not the easiest or straightest way. 

-* He chose to take the most indirect route to the coast. 

Option [dpjan] n. 

An option is a choice between two or more things. 

— The children were given the option of three houses to pick from. 

pastime [paestaim] n. 

A pastime is an activity done for fun that you do often. 

-*■ In the US, baseball is considered the national pastime. 

perfect [pe:rfikt] adj. 

If something is perfect, then it is without any mistakes. 

— She got all the questions right, so her score was perfect. 

pinpoint [pinpoint] v. 

To pinpoint something means to locate it exactly. 

-* The navigation system in my car is able to pinpoint my exact location. 

switch [switj] v. 

To switch means to change something to something else. 

-♦ Mom switched the TV station from the news to her favorite show. 

thorough [ee:rou] adj. 

If something or someone is thorough, then they are complete in every way. 
-» Tina did a thorough job of cleaning the stains out of the carpet. 

torment [torment] v. 

To torment someone means to cause them to suffer on purpose. 

-* She tormented her little brother by taking his favorite toy. 




Choose the word that is the better fit for each blank. 

1. idiot /option 

I had the of going with them or staying home. I felt like an 

for the choice I made. 

2. admonished / torment 

Because he liked to the kitten by pouring water on it, the boy’s mother 

him for his cruel behavior. 

3. echoed / pinpoint 

It was difficult to the dog’s location because its cries off 

of the hills. 

4. brag / perfect 

My sister likes to about how my mother and father think her behavior is 


5. beware / switch 

When you the machine on, you need to because the 

machine is dangerous. 

6. eventual / pastime 

All of the accidents at the swimming pool led to the closing of it and 

the end of a favorite summer . 

7. disagreed / awesome 

The king wanted people to thinkthat his powerwas . He would put 

people in jail if they with him. 

8. audible / conscious 

Even though the little girl was trying to sneak up on her parents, her 

steps made her parents of her. 

9. immense / indirect 

An tree fell across the road, forcing the travelers to take a more 

route through the countryside. 

10. hint / thorough 

The police could not find a single clue to the crime, which gave a as to 

how thethiefhad been. 



WR A Match the phrases to make complete sentences. 

1. You should beware . 

2. My favorite pastime . 

3. The doctor did a thorough check . 

4. The two friends disagreed . 

5. She switched the bag . 

6. His proud sister brags . 

7. An immense pile of garbage . 

8. The indirect route . 

9. The awesome storm caused . 

10. She admonished the student . 


a. about which game was better 
c. for talking during the test 
e. about how good she is at sports 
g. took an hour more to drive 
i. from her left hand to her right 


b. of the hole in the bridge 

d. was the reason for the bad smell 

f. of the sick man’s health 

h. fear that his home would be damaged 

j. is listening to music 


•m\i b 


Match the clauses to make complete sentences. 


1. He couldn’t sleep at night . 

2. We knew he broke his leg when he fell . 

3. He had to choose the blue car . 

4. The hiker always carried a compass and map, . 

5. She didn’t eat good food and didn’t exercise, . 

6. The students had to answer all the questions correctly . 

7. The captain did not see the ship approaching behind him, 

8. She thought someone was calling to her from the other cliff, 

9. He knew his friends were having a surprise party for him . 

10. If you can’t tie your own shoes by the time you’re twelve years old 


a. and it led to her eventual illness 

c. ifthey wanted to get a perfect grade 

e. because bad dreams tormented him 

g. but it was just the echo of her voice 
i. 


b. because they gave him so many hints 

d. but he was conscious of the other boats 

f. then people might thinkyou’re an idiot 

h. because there weren’t any other options 


so he could pinpoint his location in the wild 
because the sound of the bone breaking was audible 



The Young Man 

and the Old Man 

A proud young man was looking for a new pastime. He heard about people hiking in 
the national parks and decided to try it for himself. As he started his stroll, an old man 
walked up to him. 

“Don’t go this way,” the old man said. “Beware. The paths are not clear. It’s easy to 
become lost.” 

But the young man disagreed with the old man and bragged that he had a perfect 
understanding of the park. “I studied maps of this area,” he told him. “I believe I have a 
thorough knowledge of these trails. I won’t become lost.” 

The old man listened to the young man and then admonished him for his pride. 

“I have walked these trails my entire life,” he said. “If you think you will be safe, then 
go ahead.” 

The young man ignored the old man and started along the trail. 

Whenever he had to choose between an easy or difficult route, he always chose the 
more difficult option. In addition, he was not conscious of which direction he was going. 
After a while, he decided to return home. Because his course through the wilderness was 
so indirect, he had no idea where he was. 

He looked at his map but could not pinpoint his location. He walked one path after 
another but soon realized he was lost. 

The sun was going down, and sudden strong winds gave a hint that it might rain. 
Immense clouds filled the sky. Awesome sounds of thunder were audible from all 
directions. It echoed off the mountains. The thought of the eventual storm tormented the 
young man. He hurried in one direction, but soon switched out of confusion. Luckily, it 
^ led him out of the park. 

When he arrived home, he knew that he had acted like 
an idiot. He realized he was lucky to be alive. He decided 
to listen to people with more experience than himself. 




Reading Comprehension 


A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 


2. Why did the old man admonish the young man? 

a. The young man was awesome. 

b. The young man bragged that he was perfect. 

c. The young man’s route was too indirect. 

d. The young man chose difficult trails. 

3. Why did the young man become lost? 

a. He was not conscious of where he went. b. He pinpointed his location on his map. 

c. He did not switch to an easier trail. d. He listened to the old man’s advice. 

4. Which of the following gave a hint of an eventual storm? 

a. The sudden strong winds b. The sparse clouds in the sky 

c. The weather getting colder d. The lightining flashing in the sky 


1. The young man decided to hike in the national parks. 


2. The young man disagreed with the old man. 


3. The young man believed that his knowledge of the park’s trails was thorough. 


4. 


When the young man had an option of two trails, he always chose the easier one. 


5. The young man was tormented by the thought of the eventual storm. 


6. When the young man got home, he knew that the old man had acted like an idiot. 


PjCMU'u 1 B Answer the questions. 

1. What did the young man choose as his new pastime? 


a. Picking trails 
c. Talking with old men 


b. Climbing mountains 
d. Hiking in parks 


25 




I'l 



disapprove [dis9pru:v] v. 

To disapprove of something is to think that it is wrong. 
-* Alex disapproved of his son’s behavior. 


H 

ll 



except [iksept] prep. 

You use except to talk about the only thing that a statement does not apply to. 
-* Everyone had fun on the trip except Jim, who felt ill the whole time. 



flight [flait] n. 

A flight is an act of flying, often in an airplane. 

— The airplane made a flight around the world. 

fond [fond] adj. 

When someone is fond of something, they like it. 

-* I am very fond of chocolate cake. 

immoral DmacM adj. 

When something or someone is immoral, they are evil or do bad things. 

— Stealing money from one’s mother is an immoral act. 

IVy [aivi] n. 

Ivy is a plant with long vines that grows upward typically on walls. 

— The walls of the castle are covered with ivy. 

moan [moun] v. 

To moan is to make a low sound when feeling pain or sadness. 

— The sick man moaned from his bed. 

oblivious febliviss] adj. 

If someone is oblivious of something, they are unaware of it. 

— ■ / was late to school because I was oblivious of the time. 


26 








perish [perij] * 

To perish means to die, usually because of bad conditions or bad events. 
Many people perish in wars. 

pit [pit] n. 

A pit is a big hole in the ground. 

— Michael fell into the pit and needed some help to get out. 

Tim [rim] n. 

The rim is the outside edge of a round thing, like a cup or bottle. 

-» / put my lips to the rim of the bottle and took a drink. 

rOOSt [ru:st] n. 

A roost is a place where birds can land and rest or sleep. 

-» The family of doves made a roost at the top of the tree. 



slippery [sliperi] adj. 

If something is slippery, it is wet or smooth and causes people to slip. 
The repairman fell down on the floor because it was too slippery. 


Soar [so:r] v. 

To soar means to fly high in the air. 

-* As the sun rose, two eagles soared through the sky. 

trivial [trivial] adj. 

If something is trivial, it is not important or meaningful. 

Television is trivial, but learning to read is very important. 

typical [tipikal] adj. 

If something is typical, it is normal for a certain type of thing. 

-* Barking is typical behavior for dogs. 

utterly [Atari i] adv. 

If something is utterly a way, it is completely that way. 

-♦ When the sun was blocked by the moon, it was utterly dark outside. 


weep [wi:p] v. 

To weep means to cry. 

-» My sister told me the dramatic movie would make me weep. 






Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. What does a sad movie cause people to do? 

a. To weep b. To except 

c. To perish d. To disapprove 


2 . Where would a bird build a home? 

a. On a rim b. In a pit 

c. On a roost d. On a flight 

3 . Which word best describes a wet towel? 

a. Immoral b. Damp 

c. Trivial d. Fond 


4 . What does it mean to fly? 
a. To soar 
c. To be oblivious 


b. To moan 
d. To be typical 


5. Which word would best describe a smooth, wet stone? 

a. Ivy b. Utterly 

c. Slippery d. Immoral 

6. Which word describes something that would have a rim? 

a. A thought b. A cup 

c. A person d. A smell 

7. Which word describes something that has a beak? 

a. A bird b. A boat 

c. A car d. A lion 


8. What is typical about fish? 
a. They can swim, 
c. They can live on land. 


b. One type can sing. 

d. Some can live for close to 50 years. 


9 . Which of these people would most likely be moaning? 
a. A doctor b. A happy boy 

c. A wife d. A hurt woman 


10 . Which person has been proven to have committed an immoral act? 
a. A teacher b. A criminal 

c. A judge d. A fireman 




Choose the word that is the better fit for each blank, 


1. oblivious / perish 

All of the people in the movie will if they remain of the 

monster. 

2. roost /fond 

When the owl wants to make a , it is of using an empty 

barn. 

3. pit /rim 

He grabbed the can by its , then tossed it far down into the 


4. flight / soars 

The eagle into the clouds when it goes on a long 

5. moan / weep 

Every time the sick woman would in pain, her daughterwould 


6. immoral / typical 

It is not for a policeman to do 

7. beak / except 

Every part of the bird was beautiful, 

8. trivial / disapprove 

Because his assistant is teaching them 

of the time wasted. 

9. utterly / ivy 

Because it covered the fence, the gardener had to remove all of the 


10. slippery / damp 

The ground became dangerous and because everyone placed their 

towels there. 


things like stealing. 


for its short, ugly 


plays, the coach will 



The Tricky Fox 

There was a fox that lived in the forest. Fox loved to play mean tricks on the other 
animals. One day, he used the sharp rim of a bottle to dig a pit in the ground. He hid in a 
tree until Rabbit came to the pit’s edge. Then, he jumped out and pushed Rabbit into the 
pit. Fox laughed and ran away. The angry Rabbit climbed out and told the other animals 
what happened. 

The others said, “That is typical behavior for Fox. He does mean things all the time. 
Sometimes, he is completely immoral. We all disapprove of his actions, so we should 
teach him a lesson. Tomorrow, we’ll push Fox into that pit.” 

The next day, all of the animals hid near the pit and waited for Fox. Fox was oblivious 
to the hidden animals. He walked up to the pit to see if Rabbit was still trapped. Just 
then, the other animals ran up to Fox and pushed him in. All the animals laughed and 
cheered, except Fox, of course. 

Fox couldn’t get out! The walls of the pit were covered in damp ivy. It was too slippery 
for him to climb out. He was utterly helpless. He moaned and began to weep. 

At last, he saw Eagle watching him from her roost. He yelled, “Eagle, please help me! 
If I don’t get out of here, I will perish!” 

Eagle said, “You may think your tricks are trivial, but you hurt others when you do 
mean things. I’ll help you if you promise to be nice.” 

Fox said, “I promise!” 

Eagle began her flight to the bottom of the pit. She picked up Fox with her beak and 
soared out of the pit. She dropped Fox safely on the ground. 

Fox thanked Eagle and kept his promise. He was nice to the other animals. The 
animals even became fond of Fox, and the forest was a happy place. 



P/iMF A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Fox used the rim of a bottle to dig a deep pit. 


2. Fox had a roost near the pit. 


3. The damp ivy was too slippery for Fox to climb out. 


4. Immoral and mean behavior was typical with Fox. 


5. Fox was oblivious to the hidden pit. 


6. Eagle flew into the pit to save Fox. 


Ej ) Z^B'u I B Answer the questions. 

1. How did Rabbit fall into the pit? 
a. Rabbit ran into the pit. 

c. Rabbit sat on the edge. 

2. Why did Fox thank Eagle? 
a. She gave him money. 

c. She did not let Fox perish. 

3. Why did Fox moan and weep? 

a. The animals taught him a lesson, 
c. He felt trivial. 


b. Fox pushed him into the pit, 
d. Fox laughed and ran away. 


b. She became fond of Fox. 

d. She gave Fox some rope to climb out. 


b. He saw Eagle in her roost, 
d. He felt utterly helpless. 


4. What happened after Eagle’s flight to the bottom of the pit? 

a. She disapproved of Fox. 

b. She got stuck in the pit. 

c. She made Fox promise to leave the forest. 

d. She picked up Fox with her beak. 



awhile [eftwail] adv. 

If you do something awhile, you do it for a short time. 
Wait here awhile, and I’ll bring some tea. 



cyberspace [saibecspeis] n. 

Cyberspace is the imaginary place of the Internet where activities occur. 
-* / didn’t receive your email. It probably got lost in cyberspace. 


edit [edit] v. 

To edit means to correct a piece of writing so that it is suitable to be published. 
-* She asked her brother to edit her paper before she submitted it to her teacher. 


essay [esei] n. 

An essay is a short piece of writing on a certain subject. 

- She had to write a two-page essay for her English class. 


evaluate [ivaeijueit] v. 

To evaluate something means to study it, so a decision can be made. 
-* joe and Ken evaluated the plan and agreed that it would work. 




faint [feint] v. 

To faint means to go unconscious and fall down. 

— Carol fainted because she hadn’t eaten in over a day. 

global [gloubal] adj. 

If something is global, it happens all around the world. 

Pollution is a global problem. 

gymnasium [d3imneiziam] n. 

A gymnasium is a building with equipment that you can use to get exercise. 
When I go to the gymnasium, I use the treadmill for 20 minutes. 

highlight [hailait] y. 

To highlight something means to mark it with a color so that it is easy to see 
-» / read my vocabulary list and highlighted the most difficult words. 

ignorant [ignarant] adj. 

If someone is ignorant about something, they have no knowledge about it. 

— I’m a bit ignorant about his theories. Can you explain them to me? 


:■ 




index [fndeks] n. 

An index is a list of words at the end of a book that gives information. 

-» If you look in the index, you’ll find the right page number. 

lecture [lektjer] n. 

A lecture is a long, educational speech. 

-* His lecture on world hunger was very informative. 

moral [mscM n. 

A moral is a message at the end of a story that teaches you something. 

— At the end of the story, Mother explained the moral to the children. 

operate [apareit] V. 

To operate means to work or function. 

-» I’m sorry, but the trains are not operating today. 

private [praivit] adj. 

If something is private, it is only used by one person or group. 

— Don’t look at my diary! It’s private! 

recent [ri:sant] adj. 

When something is recent, it happened a short time ago. 

— I did not know what caused his recent behavior. 

resolution [rezalu:Jan] n. 

A resolution is a personal decision. 

— At New Year, I made a list of resolutions to help me have a better year. 

Semester [simestar] n. 

A semester is a portion of a school year. 
lack is in his second semester of college. 

typewritten [taipritn] adj. 

If something is typewritten, it is written on a computer or typewriter. 

— This is an important, formal project and must be typewritten. 

weird [wiard] adj. 

When something is weird, it is very strange. 

My best friend’s dad is a bit weird. 




33 




Choose the word that is the better fit for each blank. 

1. cyberspace / operate 

If you know how to a computer, you can get access to . 

2. recent / global 

A study shows that hunger is a very big problem. 

3. weird / ignorant 

My mom is completely about computers. She thinks that email and 

chat rooms are ways to spend one’s time. 

4. essays / edit 

Joe has the ability to write great . His writing is so good that he never 

has to his work. 

5. semester / index 

The report is due at the end of the . You should look in the 

to see if this book will help you with the report. 

6. fainted / lecture 

Ourteacher while she was giving us a about health! 

7. highlighted / typewritten 

Jennifer’s notes are very neat! They are , and she has the 

most important parts with a green pen. 

8. gymnasium / resolution 

I made a to go to the more often to improve my health. 

9. moral /awhile 

The of the story is that you should think before saying 

anything that might hurt someone. 

10. evaluated / private 

We the company, and our suggestions are written in this 

document. 




PZM7 A Match the phrases to make complete sentences. 

1. The team evaluated . 

2. The moral of the story is .. 

3. The global economic problems . 

4. Joe operates . 

5. We went to a lecture . 

6. The friends you meet in cyberspace . 

7. The weird kid at school . 

8. You should highlight these words . 

9. I made a resolution . 

10. The end of the first semester . 


a. are getting worse b. 

c. about birds d. 

e. to be nicer to people f. 

g. the success of the project h. 

i. this large machine j. 


aren’t as important as real friends 
is halfway through the school year 
to eat less chocolate 
with a yellow pen 
ate soup with a knife 


KM? B Match the clauses to make complete sentences. 

1. I wanted to get fit . 

2. Geology is my favorite subject, . 

3. My paper was full of mistakes, . 

4. My brother couldn’t help me with my math homework . 

5. In the first aid class, we learned what to do . 

6. I wanted to find some information about volcanoes, . 

7. That copy of the text book is too old, . 

8. I need a computer . 

9. I’ll get some tea if . 

10. You mustn’t tell anyone this information; . 

j a. it’s private b. so I looked under “V” in the index 

c. but he helped me edit it d. you wait here awhile 

e. so I went to the gymnasium f. so you should find a more recent one 

g. so I wrote an essay about rocks h. because my essay has to be typewritten 

: i. if someone faints j. because he’s ignorant about math 


35 




The Magic Computer 


I had a difficult geography project to finish by the end of the semester. My teacher 
wanted it to be typewritten, so I went to the school computer room. But when I got 
there, all the computers were turned off. Apparently there was a recent problem, and 
technicians were fixing it. 

I knew of some private study rooms downstairs. They were small and dark, and the 
computers were very old, but I had no choice. At least the computers were operating 
correctly. I typed and highlighted the assignment’s title: “Evaluate the Government’s 
Response to Global Warming.” But I didn’t know what to write in my essay. Finally I 
decided to find a book to help me. I went to the library, checked the book indexes and 
eventually found a useful book. Then I returned to the computer. 

When I looked at the screen, I saw something so weird that I nearly fainted! The essay 
was complete! Had somebody in cyberspace written it? I didn’t know, but I was very 
happy. I printed it out and handed it in. I got an “A.” 

After that, I used the computer for all my assignments. I’d type the title, wait awhile, and 
the computer would do it. Every assignment was perfect; I never had to edit anything. I 
stopped paying attention to my teacher’s lectures and spent my extra time in the gymnasium. 
And my grades got better and better. 

A month later, I was walking into class when my friend said, “Are you prepared for the 


“What test?” I asked. 

“The geography test!” he replied. “I hope you studied. It’s worth seventy percent of 
our final grade!” 

I failed the test, of course. I was completely ignorant about the subject. 

After that, I made a resolution never to use the magic computer 
gain. The moral of this story is that if you cheat at 


test?” 



school, you won’t learn anything. 






P/MF A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The computers were turned off because there was a recent problem. 


2. The private study rooms were upstairs. 


3. The computers in the private study rooms weren’t operating correctly. 


4. In his project, the student had to evaluate the government’s response to global 

warming. 


5. The geography test was worth fifty percent of the final grade. 


6. The student failed the test because he was completely ignorant about the 

subject. 


P/MF B Answer the questions. 


1. How did the teacher want the project to be written? 
a. In first person b. Handwritten 

c. Typewritten d. In black ink 


2. What was the project about? 
a. Global warming 
c. Weird computers 


b. Economics 
d. Computer science 


3. What did the student NOT have to do in order to use the magic computer? 
a. Type in the essay title b. Edit his paper 

c. Plug it in d. Wait awhile 


4. 


Where did the student spend his free time? 
a. In lectures b. 

c. In the library d. 


In the gymnasium 
In cyberspace 




List 


absolute [sebs9lu:t] adj. 

If something is absolute, it is total or complete. 

My presentation was an absolute disaster! It was terrible! 

alas [elaes] int. 

Alas is a word that people say when something bad happens. 

-► / looked everywhere for my purse, but alas, I couldn’t find it. 

attentive [etentlv] adj. 

If you are attentive, you are careful and you pay attention. 

— He is a good student because he is attentive to every detail on his work. 




Cape [keip] n. 

A cape is a large cloth that covers one’s back and is tied around the neck. 
-* The superhero wore a long red cape. 

envision [invi 3 an] v. 



To envision something means to imagine that it may happen. 
— I can envision my mom’s face when I give her this present! 


UH 




evenly [fvanli] adv. 

When something happens evenly, it happens at the same rate or level. 
-» The food was handed out evenly among the hungry people. 

folk [fouk] n. 

Folk are common or average people. 

— I’ve invited all the folks from our street to a gathering at my place. 

melt [melt] y. 



To melt means to turn from a solid to a liquid. 

-♦ The snowman that we made yesterday melted in the sun. 

patch [past]] n. 

A patch is a part of a surface that is different in appearance from the rest. 
-* There was one small patch of grass in the sand-covered desert. 

pleasure [pieced n . 

Pleasure is a feeling of happiness. 

— The student smiled with pleasure when she received the prize. 









pop [pap] n. 

A pop is a short, loud sound. 

-* / heard a loud pop; then my computer screen shattered. 

pudding [pudinl n. 

A pudding is a sweet dessert. 

-» Would you like some chocolate pudding and coffee for dessert? 

rail [reil] n. 

A rail is a horizontal bar made of metal or wood. 

— 1 The cat was sitting on the rail of the fence. 

recipe [resepi:] n. 

A recipe is a set of instructions to make food. 

-» The apple cake that you made is really tasty. Can I have the recipe, please? 

role [roul] n. 

A role is the normal purpose or function of a person or thing. 

— My role at work is to check the quality of the products. 

shrink [jnnk] * 

To shrink means to get smaller. 

— If you stick to a healthy diet, your stomach will shrink! 

soak [souk] v. 

To soak something means to make it very wet. 

— You need to soak these beans overnight before you cook them. 

spark [spark] n. 

A spark is a small, quick flash of fire. 

— As he welded the two pieces of metal together, sparks flew everywhere. 

spirit [spirit] n. 

A spirit is someone’s feelings and personality, but not a physical body part. 
-» He has a very outgoing spirit. He can make friends with anyone. 

SUit [su:t] n. 

A suit is a set of clothes. It usually includes a jacket with pants or a skirt. 

-* / wore my new suit on my date with Melissa. 


— 


IPLMH A Choose the right word for the given definition. 

1. a set of clothes 

a. spirit b. suit 

c. recipe d. rail 

2. common people 

a. folk b. pleasure 

c. absolute d. attentive 

3. to get smaller 

a. melt b. pop 

c. shrink d. envision 

4. a large cloth worn on the back 

a. patch b. cape 

c. spark d. role 

5. happening at the same rate everywhere 

a. evenly b. alas 

c. soaks d. pudding 


;n 


PjCMT B Choose the right definition for the given word. 

l. 

b. to turn to liquid 


melt 

a. to get smaller 
c. to make wet 


2. spark 

a. a flash of fire 
c. a sweet dessert 

3. rail 

a. a horizontal bar 
c. a normal purpose 

4. absolute 

a. said when bad things happen 
c. happening at the same rate 

5. pleasure 

a. to make a noise 
c. a feeling of happiness 


d. to imagine 


b. a set of clothes 
d. a set of instructions 


b. a common person 

d. a different part of a surface 


b. careful 

d. total and complete 


b. to get smaller 
d. personality 


40 





P/MF A Match the phrases to make complete sentences. 

1. Mom made chocolate pudding . 

2. He is very attentive . 

3. People wore capes more often . 

4. His strong spirit . 

5. I can’t envision you . 

6. It was a pleasure . 

7. His role at work is . 

8. The cat is sitting on the rail . 

9. For this recipe, I will need . 

10. There were sparks flying . 


a. ofthe fence 

b. two hundred years ago 

c. during science class 

d. to manage the team of employees 

e. flour, eggs and sugar 

f. as a politician 

g. for dessert last night 

h. out of the computer 

i. to meet you 

j. could not be hurt from mean comments 


KMF B Match the clauses to make complete sentences. 

1. If you wash this silk shirt in hot water, . 

2. Tony didn’t practice the presentation, . 

3. I studied hard for the test, . 

4. Dan was very unlucky 

5. Christmas is an important holiday . 

6. Ifyou put the butter near the fire, . 

7. This pan was so dirty 

8. To protect the kingdom, . 

9. I knew the television had broken . 

10. At work, we have to dress well, . 

a. the soldiers spread out evenly b. because he fell in a patch of rocks 

c. so it was an absolute disaster d. it will melt 

e. it will shrink f. when folks meet with their families 

: g. so I usually wear a suit h. that I had to soak it overnight 

: i. when I heard the pop j. but alas, I still didn’t do very well 








Jack Frost and the Pudding 

Every winter, a magical boy with a wild spirit named Jack Frost arrives in 
town. He wears a white cape, and his role is to cover everything with frost 
and ice. But Jack Frost also gets pleasure from playing tricks on common 

folks. 

One dark winter evening, he was sitting on the rail of a fence near a 
river, pointing at some trees. When he did so, there was a pop, and 
the trees were evenly covered in frost. 

Then old Tom Muggins came along the path. He was carrying 
a basket of ingredients for his wife’s cake recipe. “I’ll have some 
fun with him!” said Jack Frost. He pointed, and suddenly there was 
a patch of ice on the path. PoorTom slipped and fell into the river. 

The bags of flour, fruit and sugar fell open and got wet. A couple of 
eggs broke, and a stick of butter shrank in the water. Tom gathered the 
ingredients and climbed out of the river. The food made an absolute 
mess of the path. “Alas!” he cried. “There’ll be no cake for me!” 

Jack Frost laughed at poor Tom because his nice suit got soaked as 
well. “Are you cold?” he said. “Don’t worry. I’ll make you warm!” He 
pointed at the mess in Tom’s basket. Suddenly, there was a spark. 

What was left of the food caught fire! Jack Frost ran off laughing. 

PoorTom sat by the fire. He could only envision how angry his 
wife would be. He wished he had been more attentive and noticed 
that Jack was around. 

Suddenly, a pleasant smell came from the basket. Tom looked 
inside. The butter was melting and the eggs were starting to 
cook! Even the fruit began to simmer. Soon there was a fat, brown 

pudding in the basket! Tom tasted it. It was delicious! He happily 
took it home for dessert. Although Jack Frost had tried to make 
Tom’s life difficult, Jack had actually made Tom a wonderful 
pudding! 




mmm 

Reading Comprehension 


\?IM\! A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Tom Muggins likes playing tricks on folks. 


2. Jack Frost was sitting on the rail of a fence. 


3. Jack Frost’s role is to cover everything with fire. 


4. Tom wished that he had been more attentive. 


5. Tom said “Alas!” because he knew he wouldn’t have any cake. 


6. When Jack Frost set fire to the food, the eggs started to melt. 


P/M F B Answer the questions. 

1. What was Tom wearing? 
a. A nice suit 
c. A cape 


b. A wild spirit 
d. White trousers 


2 . 


Which of the following was NOT an ingredient 
a. A couple of eggs 
c. Sugar 


of the wonderful pudding? 
b. Fruit 
d. Chocolate 


3. What shrank when it got soaked in the river? 
a. Tom’s suit 
c. The basket 


b. A stick of butter 
d. The flour 


4. What happened when there was a pop sound? 
a. Tom fell into the river, 
c. The trees became covered in frost. 


b. The food caught fire, 
d. A patch of ice formed. 


Word List 


account [akaunt] n. 

An account with a bank is an arrangement to keep one’s money there. 

-► After I paid for the new car, my bank account was nearly empty. 

architect [a^it&kt] n . 

An architect is a person who designs buildings. 

-* The plans for building the new home were drawn by a famous architect. 

conceal [ksnsi:l] v. 

To conceal something means to hide it. 

-* You should conceal your money so no one can take it from you. 

crime [kraim] n. 

A crime is something bad that a person does that can be punished by law. 

— Police quickly arrived at the scene of the crime. 

deed [di:d] n. 

A deed is a certificate that proves that someone owns something. 

— When she bought the car, she was given a deed to show the car was hers. 

gratitude [graetat/'u d] n. 

Gratitude is a feeling of being thankful. 

— The kids showed Aunt Tess much gratitude for visiting them. 

habitat [haebataet] n. 

A habitat is the natural home of animals or plants. 

-* Frogs are often found in a wet habitat, such as near a lake, river, or pond. 

intervene [rntarvi :n] v. 

To intervene means to help stop a problem between two people or groups. 

— The students argued until the teacher intervened. 

landmark [Isentfmdirk] n. 

A landmark is an object that helps people find or remember a location. 

-*• The tall tree was used as a landmark for people to find the road to the inn. 

legal [ligal] adj. 

If something is legal, it is related to the law or allowed by the law. 

— It was not legal for him to drive until he was eighteen years old. 







memorable [memar0b;?l] adj. 

If something is memorable, then it is remembered for a special reason. 

-» The party was memorable; people were still talking about it years later. 

oblige [9blaid 3 ] 

To oblige someone means to require them to do something. 

-» If I wanted to have playtime, I was obliged to clean my room once a week. 

Offense [afens] n. 

An offense is an action that breaks the law and requires punishment. 

— He was put in jail for two days for the offense. 

proclaim [protvkieim] v. 

To proclaim something means to say it in public. 

— The army general proclaimed that the war was won. 

rally Irsfeii] n. 

A rally is a large public meeting in orderto support something. 

-» The school had a rally in the gym to support the basketball team. 

resolve [rizalv] v. 

To resolve something means to find a solution. 

-* She resolved the problem with her children by giving them both a toy. 

resource [ri:so:rs] n. 

Resources are a person or country’s money and materials that they can use. 
-» The poor man didn’t have the resources to feed himself. 

Sentence [sentsns] n. 

A sentence is punishment given to someone who didn’t follow the law. 

— The sentence for stealing a car is much worse than for stealing candy. 

volunteer [valantiar] v. 

To volunteer means to offer to do something for free. 

Many people volunteered to help the adults learn to read. 

witness [witnis] n. 

A witness is someone who sees or hears a crime or accident happen. 

-* The woman was the only witness of the horrible crime. 




MU A Choose the right word for the given definition. 


1. 

to work to correct a problem between two people 


a. oblige 

b. intervene 


c. conceal 

d. volunteer 

2. 

allowed by the law 



a. legal 

b. offense 


c. memorable 

d. gratitude 

3. 

to find a solution 



a. proclaim 

b. sentence 


c. resolve 

d. rally 


an object that helps people remember a place 


a. witness 

b. landmark 


c. account 

d. resource 

5. 

something a person does that can be punished by law 


a. architect 

b. deed 


c. habitat 

d. crime 


B Choose the right definition for the given word. 

l. 

memorable 




a. natural 

b. 

thankful 


c. special 

d. 

public 

2. 

witness 




a. a designer of buildings 

b. 

an important person 


c. someone who obeys the law 

d. 

a person who sees a crime 

3. 

deed 




a. money and materials 

b. 

proof of ownership 


c. a natural home 

d. 

an action that breaks the law 

4. 

sentence 




a. a punishment for a crime 

b. 

an object that helps people 


c. something against the law 

d. 

a large public meeting 

5. 

proclaim 




a. to hide something 

b. 

to offer to help 


c. to say in public 

d. 

to stop a problem 




Choose the answer that best fits the question. 


1. Which of the following is most likely a habitat? 

a. A pond b. Abridge c. A broom 

2. When something is concealed, what is it called? 

a. Loud b. Colorful c. Hidden 

3. What is something that an architect makes? 

a. A law b. A house c. A cake 

4. Which of the following is NOT legal? 

a. Swimming b. Singing c. Crying 

5. What is someone who feels gratitude most likely to say? 

a. “Hello.” b. “I’m sorry.” c. “Go away.” 


d. A picture 
d. Quick 
d. A dress 
d. Stealing 
d. “Thank you. 



'J 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. The government has enough money and materials to help all its people. 

2. The town had a large public meeting to discuss the problem with the sidewalks. 

3. The necklace was rem embered for a sp ecial reason because it was from her grandmother. 

4. His act that broke the law was serious enough to require him to stay in jail for 60 days. 

5. She had just enough money in her arra nge ment with the bank . 

6. Children are require d to go to school in most countries. 

7. My uncle sai d in public that he was an old friend of the mayor. 

8. Four students offere d to help to carry the table downstairs. 

9. A bear’s natural home is usually large forests areas with mountains. 


10. He was filled with a feeling of bei ng thankful when he was given the dog. 



m : {- C i { {• . 




The Architect’s Plan 

An architect wanted to build a new office building. 

He selected some land that seemed perfect. He 
planned to cut down the trees to make room for the 
building. But there was a problem ... a big problem. 

The land was actually the habitat of several types 
of birds. Some nature lovers were very upset with the 
architect. First, they held a rally and told others about 
the issue. Then, they decided to take legal action because 
the architect didn’t respect the animals’ rights. 

To resolve the problem, they asked a judge to 
intervene. 

The judge could not call any witnesses for the nature lovers, so he first asked 
the architect to tell his side of the story. 

“Why are you going to destroy the birds’ habitat?” the judge asked. 

The architect replied, “I have the deed to the land. I want to make a great 
building there. As you may know, all my buildings become memorable landmarks.” 
Then one of the nature lovers spoke. “We believe that there’s no 
reason to destroy all the trees. We just want to protect the birds.” 

Then the judge made his decision. “I proclaim that 
the office building should be built,” he said. “It is not 
a crime to remove those trees. I cannot give you a 
sentence for any offenses, but I feel obliged to 
make one request. I will only allow you to use 
half of the land. The other half will remain 
free, so the birds have a place to live. 

The nature lovers could not conceal 
their gratitude. All of the people cheered. 

The architect said, “I have an idea. 

I will volunteer my time and efforts to 
design a new type of building. It will 
provide bushes on the roof where birds 
can live. There are enough resources in 
my company’s bank account to create the 
best building ever made.” 

The architect did exactly as he 
promised. He built this new type 
of building, which was loved by 
everyone. 




P/MT A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The architect wanted to build a new school. 


2. The land was the habitat of several types of birds. 


3. The judge first asked the architect what happened. 


4. The architect had a deed to the land. 


5. The architect could not conceal his gratitude, so he cheered. 


6. There were enough resources in the company’s bank account to build a new 

building. 


K B Answer the questions. 

1. Why did the group have a rally? 

a. To ask for more rights b. To talk about the issue 

c. To list names of witnesses d. To talk to the architect 

2. Which of the following about the land did the architect NOT tell the judge? 

a. He wanted to make a great building. 

b. He had a deed forthe land. 

c. He thought nobody lived there. 

d. His building would be a memorable landmark. 

3. What did the group do in order to resolve the problem with the architect? 

a. Ask a judge to intervene b. Proclaim war on the architect 

c. Move the birds to a new habitat d. Sell the land to the architect 

4. What did the judge decide to give the architect as a sentencing? 

a. He gave him five years in prison. b. He had to pay the nature lovers money, 

c. He could not build any more buildings, d. He was not given a sentence. 


List 





access [aekses] n. 

Access is the right to enter or use something. 

— The manager was the only person with access to the password. 

COndliCt [kandAkt] n. 

Conduct is the way that someone acts. 

-*• She was punished for her bad conduct. 

Constant [kanstent] adj. 

When an event or action is constant, it happens a lot or all the time. 

— The television at home is in constant use. 

crack [krsek] n. 

A crack is a narrow space between the parts of something broken. 

— The old window was covered with cracks. 

device [div^is] n. 

A device is an object or a machine. 

~~ A thermometer is a device that tells temperature. 

enclose [inklouz] v. 

To enclose something is to contain it. 

The cows in the field were enclosed by a fence. 

grip [grip] v. 

To grip something is to hold it very tightly. 

-» / was scared, so I gripped my older sister’s hand. 

halt [ho: It] V. 

To halt is to stop moving. 

- The criminal halted when he saw the police coming. 

impending [impendir)] adj. 

If something is impending, it is going to happen soon. 

-» The student was nervous about his impending test. 

influence [influans] v. 

To influence someone or something is to have an effect over them. 

— My friend influenced my decision to attend Terrance University. 




law [Id:] n. 

A law is a rule made by the legislative body. 

— The students teamed about different laws during social studies class. 

mode [moud] n. 

A mode is a setting or condition on a machine. 

Mother turned the TV to quiet mode while she talked on the phone. 

perspire [parspaiar] v. 

To perspire means to sweat. 

-» / usually perspire a lot when I am at practice. 

replace [ripleis] v. 

To replace something is to put it in the place of something else. 

— I replaced the tire on my car because it was flat. 

Snap [sneep] v. 

To snap something means to break it suddenly, which causes a loud noise. 

-» I took the stick and snapped it with my hands. 

Sly [slai] adj. 

If a person or animal is sly, they are sneaky or good at tricking people. 

— The sly fox stole the eggs from the nest. 

tend [tend] V. 

To tend to do something is to be likely to do it or to do it often. 

-♦ My mom tends to buy me the perfect gift each Christmas. 

valid [vselid] adj. 

When something is valid, it is correct or based on good reasoning. 

-» The expert’s opinion on the subject was more valid than others. 

version [ve^an] n. 

A version is an account of something that differs slightly from the original. 

-» She read the students British version of the Chinese fairy tale. 

Whatsoever [/iwdtsouevar] adj. 

You use whatsoever after a noun to emphasize that there is nothing of that thing. 

— The boy had no idea whatsoever how to solve the story problem. 




Choose the word that is the better fit for each blank. 

1. conduct / replace 

Mr. Holloway was sent to the old coach, who was known for his wild 

during games. 

2. influenced / laws 

Decisions made in courts are often by the personal views of the judge. 

In some cases, the decisions help change . 

3. gripped / snapped 

I the pencil and squeezed it until it . 

4. whatsoever / enclosed 

My father a check in the letter he sent me. He always offered to help 

even if I didn’t ask for any help . 

5. constantly / impending 

The soldier dreaded the battle. He thought about what 

might happen to him. 

6. tends / cracks 

I saw several in the ice. This to happen when the weather 

becomes warmer. 

7. device / mode 

Sheila took the from her purse and pressed a couple of buttons. It took 

her awhile to figure out how to turn it to silent . 

8. halt / access 

She ran from room to room quickly, but suddenly. She couldn’t have 

to the room without a key. 

9. valid / version 

The student had a reason for leaving the classroom when his teacher 

was gone. He tried to explain his of what happened while she was 

gone. 

10. sly / perspired 

The thief while the police questioned him. They didn’t feel sorry for the 

crimminal. 




GffiT A Match the phrases to make complete sentences. 

1. Scientists have a device that helps . 


2. The driver gripped the wheel. 

3. I always perspire more often . 

4. The concert halted . 


5. The sly boy took a cookie while. 

6. My father replaced the old 

7. He had a valid reason . 

snapped the toy . 


8 . 

9. The teacher tends to give the best grades to . 
10. I got no joy whatsoever from getting . 


a. as she turned around the corner 
c. by holding it too tightly 
e. in the summer 
g. to miss school today 
i. my brother in trouble 


b. when the electricity went out 
d. light bulb with a new one 
f. them tell how old an object is 
h. students who do all of their homework 
j. his mother wasn’t watching him 


P/MF B Match the clauses to make complete sentences. 

1. He didn’t understand, . 

2. He was told to behave, . 


3. Joe was such a bad person . 

4. To keep the jewels safe, 

5. Be careful . 

6. Mark tried the code, 


7. She practices the violin during the day, 

8. He studied hard . 

9. She turned her phone off, . 

10. He replaced the glass . 


a. but he wasn’t given access to the room 

b. because he can influence people to do anything 

c. because the impeding test was so important 

d. so the constant music wouldn’t annoy the neighbors 

e. that he broke every law f. it was enclosed in glass 

g. because there were cracks in it h. so they told him a different version 

i. so his conduct was excellent j. so the mode wouldn’t disturb anyone 


53 




— 




Janie and the Music Player 

Janie had constant thoughts about getting a music player. One day, she was late to 
class. She hurried down the hall but halted when she saw a backpack on the floor. She 
looked inside and found nothing but some books. She reached inside the bag and felt a 
small object at the bottom. It was a music player enclosed in a black case! Janie tended 
to be honest, and she had no valid reason to take the device. However, her desire for 
the player influenced her decision. Janie was being sly. She put the device into her own 
backpack. When she arrived at class, she gave her teacher the bag. “I found this,” she 
said. 

Ms. Johnson asked, “Does this backpack belong to anyone?” A girl named Linda 
claimed the bag. Linda looked inside and yelled, “My music player 
is missing! Janie took it!” Janie answered, “I did not.” Linda 
responded, “You were the only one that had access to it! If your 
version of the story is true, you’ll let Ms. Johnson check your bag.” 
Janie started to perspire as she realized the impending trouble 
she was in. She gripped her bag tightly. 

Ms. Johnson took the bag from Janie. Inside 
she found the player. “Janie, I never expected 
/ this kind of conduct from you,” she said. “You’ve 

always been such a good student.” 

Ms. Johnson gave Linda the player. Linda said, “Ms. 
Johnson, look!” There was a crack along one side. She 
turned it to the “on” mode, but it wouldn’t work. It must’ve 
snapped while Janie was holding onto the bag so tightly. 

Ms. Johnson called Janie’s parents. They were very upset. 
“Stealing is illegal. You have no respect for the 
law whatsoever,” they said. “We bought you a 
music player, but we’re giving it to Linda. It 
will replace the one you broke.” In the end, 

Janie’s bad behavior left her with nothing 
at all. 






PZMF B Answer the questions. 

1. What did Janie find enclosed in the black case? 

a. A music player b. A backpack 

c. A locker d. A key 


2. The reading explains that Janie lied to her teacher about what? 

a. A backpack she found b. Taking Linda’s music player 

c. The reason she snapped the player d. How the player got a crack 


3. What did Ms. Johnson NOT expect from Janie? 


a. Bad conduct 
c. Poor schoolwork 


b. Her banking information 
d. Her influence 


4. Janie’s parents said she had no respect whatsoever for what? 
a. Her impending trouble b. The law 

c. Her sly behavior d. The valid reasons 


55 




Word List 


alongside [9lo:r|said] adv. 

If something is alongside another thing, then it is next to it. 

-» We work alongside each other in the office. 

appetite [se pita it] n. 

Your appetite is your hunger for food. 

— Tom has a big appetite. He eats all the time. 

assist [asist] v. 

To assist someone is to help them. 

— ■ Andrew assisted me with my homework. 

breeze [t>ri:z] n. 

A breeze is a soft wind. 

-* The breeze caused the leaves to fall off the tree. 

defy [difai] v. 

To defy someone is to work against them or refuse to do what they say. 

-* The students got into trouble for defying their teacher’s rules. 

display [displei] v. 

To display something is to show it, especially by putting it in a certain place. 
-* The museum displayed many wonderful paintings. 

efficient [mjant] «<//. 

If something or someone is efficient, they do not waste energy. 

-* My car is very efficient. I rarely have to buy gas. 

feeble [fi;bal] adj. 

If someone is feeble, they are small or weak. 

— ■ The boy was too feeble to carry the object very far. 

forgive [fargiv] v. 

To forgive someone is to stop being angry with them. 

-* Sandra forgave Peter after he said he was sorry. 

lively [laivli] adj. 

If someone is lively, they have a lot of energy. 

— Jennifer is very lively: she’s always running and playing. 













majestic [msd3estik] adj. 

If something is majestic, it is large and beautiful. 
— The rich people lived in a big , majestic house. 


nor [no:r] con j. 

You use nor to connect two negative ideas. 

-* / eaf neither apples nor oranges. I don’t like either one. 

outraged [autreidj] adj. 

If someone is outraged, they are very angry. 

— My father was outraged when he saw that I had crashed his car. 

pessimistic [pesemistik] adj. 

If someone is pessimistic, they believe that the worst will happen. 

— John is pessimistic. He always thinks something bad will happen. 

rumor [ru:mar] n. 

A rumor is something people talk about even though it may not be true. 
-* Kevin was spreading rumors about Marcia to everyone. 

slap [slaep] v. 

To slap someone means to hit them with the palm of the hand. 

-* Out of anger, Helen slapped Eunice on the face. 

smash Ismael] v. 

To smash something is to break it into many small pieces. 

-♦ Jacob smashed the window with a rock. 

subject [sAbd3ikt] n. 

A subject is the topic that is being discussed or taught. 

-♦ The subject of Marco’s speech was the economy. 

Wage [weid3l n. 

A wage is the money that a person gets for doing a job. 

— The wages I receive from my job are really great! 

whereas [ftwearaez] conj. 

You use whereas to show how two things are different. 

— My sister loves horror movies, whereas I prefer comedies. 


57 




PZiMf A Choose the right word for the given definition. 

1. a gentle wind 


a. breeze 
c. subject 

b. appetite 
d. display 

2 . money for a job 
a. rumor 
c. wage 

b. forgive 
d. whereas 

3 . big and beautiful 
a. feeble 
c. efficient 

b. majestic 
d. outraged 

4 . full of energy 
a. lively 
c. pessimistic 

b. nor 

d. alongside 


5 . used to show how two things are different 

a. alongside b. smash 

c. defy d. whereas 

PMf B Choose the right definition for the given word. 

1. pessimistic 


a. to show something 
c. full of energy 

b. believing that something bad will happen 
d. large and beautiful 

2 . slap 

a. to hit someone 
c. to be beside 

b. to break something 
d. to be small or weak 

3 . rumor 
a. to pay 
c. to be a sign 

b. to become windy 
d. an unproven story 

4 . outraged 
a. angry 

c. showing contrast 

b. connecting two ideas 

d. believing something bad will happen 

5 . defy 
a. hunger 

c. helping someone 

b. to stop being angry 
d. to go against 




Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. |im walks to school beside Tim. 


2. I needed Jamie to help me in fixing my car. 


3. The story that may no t be true about his life is spreading around town. 


4. I spend all my money that I m ake at my job on new clothes. 


5. The chair broke into small pieces when Rob sat down on it. 


6. Bob is small and weak because he doesn’t eat healthy food. 

7. My new car is not wasteful . 

8. My favorite topic to study in school is science. 

9. She was very angry when someone stole her purse. 

10. I stopped being angry at loseph when he said he was sorry. 

An outrage 
Feeble 
An outrage 
An efficient mouth 
Smashed 


Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. Which of the following connects two negative ideas? 

a. A breeze b. Nor c. Defy d. 

2. What is a positive way to describe someone? 

a. Forgive b. Pessimistic c. Lively d. 

3. What can you study in school? 

a. A breeze b. A subject c. A wage d. 

4. What controls how much you eat? 

a. Your appetite b. Your subject c. Your herald d. 

5. Ifyou are showing something, what are you doing? 

a. Assist b. Displaying it c. Slapped d. 



Growing to be Great 


When George was just a boy, he didn’t have any parents. The rumor was that they died 
in a car accident. Many bad things could have happened to George, but he was lucky. 

He was sent to live alongside other children without parents. There were kind people to 
assist George and help him go forward with his life. However, he was a pessimistic and 
mean little boy. 

George was often outraged. He told mean rumors about the other kids. He smashed 
furniture and even slapped other boys. He defied anyone who tried to help him, and 
soon it was difficult for them to forgive him. But George did display a love for one thing. 
He loved to play baseball. Whereas he was lazy in school and liked neither the subjects 
nor the teachers, he was lively and happy when he played baseball. 

One of George’s teachers noticed his talent. He began to work with the boy. At first 
they only talked about baseball. The teacher watched George play. He was a very efficient 
hitter. He almost never missed the ball. The teacher thought that George looked majestic 
when he played. When George hit the ball, it flew through the breeze as if it would never 
come down. In time, they began to talk about other things. They talked about George’s 
family and his dreams for the future. They developed a very good relationship. 

As George got older, he began to grow. His appetite was huge. He ate and ate. He got 
stronger. Soon the other boys and even the teachers looked small and feeble next to him. 
Everyone thought that this heralded the 


start of a great baseball career. 

When George got his first job as a 
baseball player, he gave most of his 
wages to the people who had helped 





Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 


1. George grew up alongside other children who didn’t have parents. 


2. George looked majestic when he played baseball. 


3. __ George was a feeble boy with a small appetite. 


4. When George grew up, he gave some of his wages to the people who had assisted 

him. 


5. George was a lively student who liked many subjects. 


6, George smashed things and slapped other boys when he was outraged. 

I J 


ft B Answer the questions. 

1. Why did one of George’s teachers begin to 
a. George displayed a talent for baseball, 
c. George was a pessimistic student. 

2. When was George lively and happy? 

a. When he had lunch with other children 
l c. When he was at school 

3. Why was George good at baseball? 

I a. He was very tall. 

I c. He was a very efficient hitter. 


work with him? 

b. No one wanted to talk to George, 
d. George didn’t like the boys at school. 


b. When he was playing baseball 
d. When he got married 


b. He could swim very well, 
d. He usually defied his teachers. 


What was the rumor about George’s parents? 

a. They were very sick. b. They were not able to take care of him. 

c. They went on a trip. d. They died in a car accident. 


animate [aenamit] adf. 

When something is animate, it has life. 

— Rocks and machines are not animate things. 

classify [klsesafai] v. I 

To classify things is to put them into groups based on their type. 

-* The biologist classified the plant as a completely new species. 

concede [kansi.d] v. I 

To concede is to admit that something is true against your wish. 

-* The student conceded that he had cheated on the test. 

concept [kansept] n. 

A concept is an idea about something. 

-* / learned some concepts of molecules before working in the science lab. 

construct [kanstrAkt] v. 

To construct something means to make or build it. 

“* The men used wood and metal to construct a house. 

decade [d6keid] n. 

A decade is a period often years. 

-* She celebrated her three decades of work with the company. 

diagram [daiagraem] n. 

A diagram is a simple drawing that explains what something is or how it works, 

— By following the diagram, I was able to put the desk together. 

ferry [ten] n. 

A ferry is a boat that carries passengers over short distances. 

— The ferry took the people across the lake. 

handy [haendi] adj. 

If something is handy, it is useful. 

-♦ An eraser is handy if you make a lot of mistakes. 

isolate [aisaleit] v. 

To isolate is to separate one person or thing from a group. 

-* The teacher isolated the bad child from the class before talking with her. 



longing [i5(:)ninl n. 

A longing is a strong feeling of wanting. 

-* Since he skipped breakfast, he had a longing for food all morning. 

numerous [n/uimaras] adj. 

If something is numerous, there are many of those things. 

-* It was hard to drive fast since there were numerous holes in the road. 

particle [pdytiw] n. 

A particle is a very small piece of something. 

-» The bottles of wine were covered in a layer of dust particles. 

plea [pH:] n. 

A plea is a request that is urgent or emotional. 

The poor, hungry man made a plea for food. 

refrain [rifrein] v. 

To refrain from something is to avoid doing it. 

-* The doctor asked Mary to refrain from eating fast food as part of her diet. 

review [rivju:] n. 

A review of something is a formal inspection of it by people in authority. 

-* The government ordered a careful review of the economic situation. 

sophisticated [saffstekeitid] adj. 

If someone is sophisticated, they know many things about the world. 

— ■ Jake is one of the most sophisticated persons I’ve ever met. 

surrender [sarendsr] v. 

To surrender something is to give it up. 

-* The thief surrendered the money to the police when he was caught. 

upright [Aprait] adj. 

If something is upright, it is standing up straight. 

— Meerkats can’t walk like humans, but they can stand upright. 

worthwhile [w 9 reft wail] adj. 

If something is worthwhile, it is important or useful. 

-> On his visit to Canada, he realized studying English was worthwhile. 



Exe 


P/aMj 1 A Choose the right word for the given definition. 


1 . 

a formal inspection 




a. review 

b. 

diagram 


c. plea 

d. 

longing 

2 . 

to accept the truth 




a. isolate 

b. 

classify 


c. construct 

d. 

concede 

3 . 

an idea about how something is 




a. decade 

b. 

ferry 


c. concept 

d. 

particle 

4 . 

knowing a lot about the world 




a. upright 

b. 

sophisticated 


c. handy 

d. 

surrender 

5 . 

important 




a. refrain 

b. 

numerous 


c. worthwhile 

d. 

animate 


BSkRD’ B Choose the right definition for the given word. 

l. 

particle 




a. a small piece of something 

b. 

a drawing 


c. a formal inspection 

d. 

a strong feeling of want 

2. 

decade 




a. an idea about something 

b. 

a period often years 


c. a type of boat 

d. 

a thing that has life 

3 . 

upright 




a. important 

b. 

to not do something 


c. standing straight 

d. 

a request 

4 . 

isolate 




a. to separate 

b. 

to group together by type 


c. to give up 

c. 

to accept the truth 

5 . 

handy 




a. to make something 

b. 

common 


c. plentiful 

d. 

useful 





Choose the word that is the better fit for each blank. 

1. animate / particle 

Scientists thought that the tiny was not a living thing, so they were very 

surprised to find that it was indeed . 

2. handy / numerous 

My uncle, the carpenter, keeps tools in his truck. However, he keeps 

the most ones on his tool belt at all times. 


3. classify / upright 
One way that scientists. 


. the different species of early humans is by how 


. to be free. 


they walked. Homo Erectus, for example, walked . 

4. longing /plea 

After sitting in the cell for just one hour, the prisoner felt a 

He made a to the officers to release him immediately. 

5. sophisticated / worthwhile 

Learning how to speak another language is a skill to have in the world 

of international business. It also can make one into a more person. 


6. review / concept 

jack had a great _ 
thorough 


. for a new system, but his boss needs to conduct a 


to see if it will work. 


7. diagram / isolate 

William used a piece of white paperto . 


.the different plants in the 
of the leaves of each type 


. overnight. In fact, it took many 


garden. That made it easier for him to draw a _ 
of plant. 

8. constructed / decades 

The great pyramids of Egypt were not 

to complete them. 

9. concede / ferry 

As he drove his car onto the , John felt sad. He wanted to travel by 

airplane, but after looking at ticket prices, he had to that air travel was 

just too expensive. 


10. refrain / surrender 

In maintaining good health, it is important to. 
foods. But that doesn’t mean you must 


from eating unhealthy 

all of the foods that you enjoy. 


65 






k 


Anton’s Great Discovery 

Anton Van Leeuwenhoek was a Dutch cloth merchant. His life began to change after 
he got his first microscope in 1653. It was a very simple microscope. It had a lens in an 
upright stand. It could make small things look large. It was handy for looking closely at 
cloth. 

Soon, Anton felt a longing to build a more powerful microscope. He dreamed of 
using it to make an important scientific discovery. He wanted to become famous. Three 
decades later, he did. 

For many years, Anton experimented with microscopes and lenses. Eventually he 
constructed a very powerful microscope. If he had sold the concept to others, it would 
have made him very rich. However, Anton refrained from surrendering his secret 
to anyone. Instead, he wanted to use it to become famous. So he used his secret 
microscope to study the natural world. 

One day he was looking at saliva from his mouth with the microscope. In the saliva, 
he saw numerous tiny particles. Some of them were moving! He thought that the 
particles were tiny organisms. So he isolated them from each other and studied each 

one carefully. Then he classified them into different categories. Some 
were round. Others were long and had tails. All were alive. 

Anton was so excited. He knew he could become famous 
now. He was the first person to see these tiny organisms. So 
he drew diagrams of the organisms and sent them to a group 
of scientists in London. The scientists were sophisticated men 
who did not believe tiny, animate organisms could live in our 
mouths. Anton made a plea for them to come to Holland to 
see the organisms with their own eyes. The men took a ferry 
to Holland and met Anton. They performed a careful review of 
his work, and they conceded that he had made a 
worthwhile discovery. Anton Van Leeuwenhoek 
had discovered bacteria. After decades of 
hard work, he had become famous. 


s 


* 


.1 







'7 A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Anton’s first microscope had an upright stand. 


2. Anton had a longing to become rich. 


3. The tiny particles Anton saw were bacteria. 


4. Anton classified the particles into different categories. 


5. The sophisticated scientists drew diagrams of the bacteria. 


6. Anton took a ferry to Holland. 


B Answer the questions. 

1. Which is true about Anton’s discovery? 


a. It isolated him from his work. b. 

c. It was handy for his business. d. 

2. Why was Anton’s first microscope handy? 
a. It made him rich. b. 

c. It was easy to construct. d. 


It was not worthwhile. 

It took him three decades to make it. 


It helped him look at cloth. 
It made him famous. 


|3. What was Anton’s plea to the scientists? 

a. To buy his microscope b. To send him animate organisms 

c. To invite him to London d. To see the particles with their own eyes 

4. Why didn’t Anton sell his concept of a powerful microscope? 

a. He didn’t want to surrender his secret, b. Scientists needed to review it first, 
c. He was already rich. d. It wasn’t perfected yet. 


Word List 


alliance lalaiens] n. 

An alliance is a group of people who work together. 

— The junior executives formed an alliance with each other. 

applause [apioz] n. 

Applause is the noise made when people clap hands to show approval. 

— At the end of his speech, everyone gave applause. 

armed [axmd] adj. 

If you are armed, you are carrying a weapon. 

— The robber was armed with a gun. 

authoritative Lsoo : riteitiv] adj. 

If something is authoritative, it uses the best information available. 

-» This book is an authoritative source on Ancient Egypt’s Queen Nefertiti. 

ceremony [seremouni] n. 

A ceremony is an event that happens on special occasions. 

-» Tom and Amy’s marriage ceremony is in June. 

culture IkAltJar] n. 

Culture is the music, art, and writings of a certain place or group of people. 

— Ancient Mexican culture is renowned for its architecture. 

defense [difens] n. 

A defense is something that is done to protect another thing. 

-» The airforce works in defense of its country. 

detail [di:teil] n. 

A detail is a small piece of information. 

-► Jane told Ben all the details of her trip to China. 

diverse [divbxs] adj. 

When a group of things is diverse, it is made up of a wide variety of things. 
Big cities have diverse populations with people of different races and ages. 

enchant [mt/sent] v. 

To enchant someone is to make them feel very interested or happy. 

The beautiful woman enchanted everybody in the room. 




equip [ikwip] v. 

To equip someone is to give them the things needed to do something. 

-*■ Steve was equipped with the tools needed to do the job. 

exception [iksepjan] n. 

An exception is someone or something not conforming to a rule. 

— Most students thought the test was hard, but Tim was the exception. 

genre [5a nra] n. 

A genre is a type of literature, art, or music characterized by its style. 

-» She is considered a master in the comedy genre. 

impact [impagkt] n. 

An impact is the effect someone or something has on another. 

— My grandmother had a great impact on my life. 

lure [iubt] v. 

To lure someone is to convince them to do something, by using a trick. 

-* The store lures people in with big signs that say “Sale!” 

obstacle [abstekel] n. 

An obstacle is an object or a problem that stops you from doing something. 

— Climbing over the giant rock was the biggest obstacle for the hikers. 

shelter (piteri n. 

A shelter is a place to go that is safe from danger or bad weather. 

-* The frog took shelter from the storm in a nearby cave. 

Sort [so:rt] v. 

To sort means to separate things into different groups or classes. 

— He sorted his clothes by colors and sizes. 

supply [seplai] v. 

To supply something means to give people what they need or want. 

-* The water heater supplied the house with warm water. 

Vain [vein] adj. 

If people are vain, they are only concerned with how they look. 

-» Rebecca is so vain that she looks at herself in every mirror. 


69 



Choose the right word for the given definition. 


1. 

to provide the things that someone needs to do something 




a. sort b. enchant 

c. equip 

d. 

lure 

2. 

a safe place 

a. genre b. shelter 

c. defense 

d. 

culture 

3. 

holding a weapon 
a. authoritative b. vain 

c. diverse 

d. 

armed 

4. 

pieces of information 
a. details b. impacts 

c. applause 

d. 

supplies 

5. 

a group working together 
a. ceremony b. alliance 

c. exception 

d. 

obstacle 



Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. Please put into differe n t groups all the leaves you find. 


2. Everybody was very interested when Kate read that beautiful poem out loud. 


3. The performer heard great sounds of people dappingtheir hands . 


4. Tim takes a long time to get ready because he is so concerned with how he looks . 


5. Ocean life is made up of a wide variety of t hings. 


6. What is your favorite kind or style of music? 


7. The special event will start at 8 o’clock tonight. 


8 . The city’s only action taken to p ro tect itself was to build a giant brick wall around it. 


9. Ben went through many problems before he finished his project. 


10. Most girls like to play with dolls, but Samantha is the one who doesn’t conform . 




BaEff A Match the phrases to make complete sentences. 

1. I’m going to try to lure my friends . 

2. Sort the pieces 

3. The biggest obstacle Mary faced . 

4. The genre of abstract art . 

5. The awards ceremony is . 

6. Mexican culture is . 

7. The best defense against skin cancer . 

8. The students were equipped . 

9. An armed man ran into . 

10. The vain woman could . 



a. was popularized by artists like Picasso and Dali 

b, is to wear a lot of sunscreen c. with pencils, scissors, and a lot of glue 

d. known for its interesting folk art e. into coming to the museum with me 

f. tonight at the Royal Crown Hotel g. talk about herself for hours and hours 

h. into three equal groups i. was not being able to read very well 

j. the jewelry store and stole diamonds 


B Match the clauses to make complete sentences. 

1. It started raining really hard, . 

2. He saw that the children were cold, . 

3. Police officers work very hard, . 

4. Everyone always trusts Seth . 

5. MotherTeresa was a very well-known person, . 

6. He only likes one type of music, . 

7. James tried to write the report last night, . 

8. I don’t really like Jennifer, . 

9. Bob and Eric both want to beat James at the game, . 

10. The performer did a great job, . 


a. and officer Jones is no exception b. and her work impacted many lives 

c. but everyone else is enchanted by her d. but I like a diverse selection 

e. so we ran inside for shelter f. so they will form an alliance 

g. and the crowd gave him great applause h. so he supplied them with blankets 

i. but it had so many details that he couldn’t finish 

j. because he sounds authoritative when he speaks 


71 



r 


I 1 


\m 


i 1 




t’r'H, 


i|;li ( ii* 


ii'V 


How a Singer 

Helped Win the War 

Sometimes famous people are vain. They only care about themselves. But Josephine 
Baker was an exception. In the 1930s and 1940s, Bakerwas one of the most famous 
women in France. She was a big part of the new jazz genre and culture and had a diverse 
group of fans. The French people especially loved her. And she loved France. So when 
World War II started, she wanted to help the nation that had given her so much. 

In 1940, armed German troops entered Paris. When this happened, some French 
people formed a secret alliance. It was called the French Resistance. The group worked 
for the defense of France. It helped the European and American armies fight the 
Germans. 

Bakerwas an important member of the Resistance. She had three 
jobs. The first was to carry messages to and from other members 
The messages were written in code on her sheets 
of music. The second was to provide shelter and 
supply goods to Resistance members. It would have 
been dangerous if the Germans found them. 

Baker’s third job was the most important. Baker held 
concerts for European politicians and army members. 

She lured them in, promising an entertaining show. 

She enchanted them with her singing and dancing 
and got lots of applause. 

But Bakerwas 
always equipped 
with a small 
notebook at these 
concerts. She listened 

for details about the war and wrote ▼ ' ^ 

them down. Baker sorted the details and gave m* 

authoritative reports to the Resistance. 

Some thought Baker’s fame would be an obstacle. The 
Germans knew who she was, but they didn’t think she was smart 
enough to work for the Resistance. So she could get information 
from the Germans easily. This helped the Resistance and the 
French army save lives and win the war. 

Baker had a big impact on the Resistance’s work. She got 
many awards for her help. When she died, the army had a special 
ceremony to thank her again for her bravery. 









CjsO 1 A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1, Baker’s first job was to carry messages written in code to and from European 

politicians. 


2. Baker provided shelter for Resistance members and supplied them with goods. 

_ 

: 

3. Baker was always equipped with a small notebook during her concerts. 


4, In 1940, armed German troops entered Europe. 


5, Baker enchanted politicians and army members with her singing and dancing. 


6, Baker sorted details about the war and gave authoritative reports. 


.'O’ B Answer the questions. 

1. Which genre of music was Josephine Baker famous for? 

a. She was famous for jazz music. b. She was famous for blues music, 

c. She was famous for rock music. d. She was famous for country music. 


2. What happened when the Germans entered Paris? 

a. Armed soldiers fought them. b. Baker lured them back to Germany, 

c. The French formed a secret alliance, d. They sent messages in code. 


3. What was Baker’s most important job? 
a. To provide shelter 

c. To write messages in code 

4. What happened when Baker died? 

a. The army had a special ceremony, 
c. Her fame became an obstacle. 


b. To give authoritative reports 
d. To have a diverse group of fans 


b. Baker had an impact on France, 
d. The Resistance found her secret codes. 



ITI'I, 


alternative [o:lta:mativ] n. 

An alternative is something that you can choose instead of your first choice. 
Her first plan to make extra money seemed weak, so she chose an alternative, 

avenue [sfevaryu:] n. 

An avenue is a road, often a large one with buildings on each side. 

-» Drive down this avenue and then turn left to go to the park. 

belly [beli] n. 

The belly is the stomach of a person or animal. 

— - His belly was full because he ate a lot of food. 

bid [bid] n. 

A bid to do something is an attempt to do it. 

-» He made a bid to become the university’s next president. 


U 


- 




blow [blou] v. 

To blow means to move air or move something through the air, as in the wind. 
— The wind is blowing very hard today. We should stay inside. 

conflict [kanflikt] n. 

A conflict is a fight between different people or groups. 

-» The two nations had a conflict over which one could use the water in the rivet 

Continent [kantanant] n. 

A continent is one of the seven large areas of land on the Earth. 

-* Asia is the largest continent. 


•> r 




current [ka:rant] n. 

A current is a steady and constant flow of air or water in a river or ocean. 
— 1 The ocean currents took the ship far off into the sea. 

disrespect [disrispekt] n. 

Disrespect is rudeness or a behavior that shows a lack of respect. 

— He showed disrespect by arguing with his boss during a meeting. 



enthusiasm [eneu:ziaezem] n. 

Enthusiasm is a very strong good feeling about something. 

-* The crowd showed their enthusiasm for the soccer team by cheering loudly. 








harsh [harf] adj. 

When something is harsh, it is very unpleasant. 

-* The desert can be a very harsh environment. 

lean [li:n] V. 

To lean is to bend the body in a particular direction. 

-» The woman leaned against the counter because she was tired. 

meantime [mi:ntaim] n. 

The meantime is the time between two events. 

-♦ Ted began setting the table. In the meantime, I began preparing the food. 

mischief [mistjifi n. 

Mischief is behavior that is meant to trick or cause trouble for people. 

— Ben was up to mischief when he persuaded Ken to paint his face. 

muscle [mAsal] n. 

Muscle is a mass of tissue attached to bone that helps you move. 

— She went to the gym in order to make her muscles stronger. 

reSCUe [reskju:] v. 

To rescue someone means to remove them from danger. 

-* The firefighter rescued the man from the burning building. 

SUCCeSSion [saksejan] n. 

A succession is a number of things that follow one afterthe other. 

The student said the letters of the alphabet in succession. 

terrain [tarem] n . 

The terrain is the land and all of its physical features or parts. 

-» The terrain below was rocky and full of hills. 

timid [timid] adj. 

If someone is timid, they are afraid, shy, or nervous. 

-» The timid child hides behind her mother whenever she sees a stranger. 

violence [vaialans] n. 

Violence is forceful action that is meant to injure or kill people. 

-* The boy hit his brother in an act of violence. 





Choose the word that is the better fit for each blank. 

1. muscle / violence 

It was bad that the man had a lot of because he used it to cause 


2. belly /bid 

He had a to win the race, but he had to quit when he got a bad pain in 

his . 

3. disrespect / timid 

The boy was always because his classmates were mean and treated him 

with . 

4. continent / enthusiasm 

The boy had a lot of before his trip to Europe. He had never been to a 

different before. 

5. lean / meantime 

The movie will start soon. In the , help me to these heavy 

boards against the wall. 

6. alternative / avenue 

The that the man wanted to drive on was blocked, so he found an 

route. 

7. conflict / rescue 

The police officer had to the woman from a bad she had 

with another woman. 

8. harsh / terrain 

The girl walked along the rough beach. The rocky was on 

her feet. 

9. mischief / succession 

The boys were up to their usual and were throwing balls of paper at 

each other in . 

10. current / blow 

I turned on the fan so that it would air on me. The of cool 

air felt wonderful. 





Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. Australia is an island that is also the smallest large area of land on the planet. 


2. The land’s feature was quite hilly. 


3. The pitcher threw the balls to home plate in a series, one after another . 


4. The student left for school early. She had to walk down an extended road to get there. 


5. Brian was tired. He needed to bend over and rest on the side of his car. 


6. The student decided that the answer was A and not the other choice . B. 


7. The river’s fast stead y movement of water made it difficult to swim to the other side. 


8. He talked about US history, and the pupils wrote notes in the time during the event . 


9. The dog continued barking. The loud noise was painful and rough to her ears. 


10. The boys used forceful action to get what they wanted. 



Choose the answer that best fits the question. 


1. Which word best describes a student who is very happy and excited? 
a. Enthusiasm b. Violence c. Current d. Alt< 


d. Alternative 


2. Which of the following describes a scared person best? 

a. Timid b. Disrespect c. Muscle d. 


d. Succession 


3. What is something that can be soft and round? 


a. Something in the meantime 
c. A person’s belly 


b. An avenue 
d. A continent 


4. Which word best describes behavior meant to trick or cause trouble? 
a. Mischief b. Conflict c. Terrain d. Harsh 


c. Terrain 


d. Harsh 


5. Which of the following best describes the action of the wind? 

a. It bids. b. It rescues. c. It blows. d. It leans. 



The Sun and the North Wind 

The Sun and the North Wind were talking to each other in the sky. The North Wind was I 
saying that he was better than everyone else. The Sun listened as the North Wind talked \ 
with enthusiasm about how powerful he was and how he could push something from 
one continent to another with one breath. He said, “I am the strongest thing in the sky." 

“Really?” asked the Sun. “How do you know that you are more powerful than the 
stars, or the rain, or even me?” 

The North Wind laughed with disrespect. He yelled, “You? That’s a joke!” 

This hurt the Sun. He was usually timid and did not want to cause conflict. Today he 
decided that he should teach the North Wind a lesson. 

In the meantime, a man began walking along the avenue down on Earth. When the 
Sun looked down on the terrain below, he saw the man. He pointed down to the Earth 
and said, “Do you see that man walking below? I bet I can get his jacket off of him. Can 
you?” 

“Of course!” the North Wind replied as he took a deep breath and filled his lungs 
with air. He used all of his muscles in his face and belly to blow winds at his target in 

succession. 

The harsh air currents made the man cold. The man pulled his jacket more tightly 
around him. It did not come off. The Sun decided to rescue the man from the mischief 
of the North Wind. He said, “May I try?” Then he sent down sunlight that made the man 
warm. The man leaned against a tree. He took off his jacket and enjoyed the nice 
weather. 

“You are very powerful,” the Sun said to the North Wind, “but you use 
violence in your bid to appear strong. You should think of an alternative. 

The strongest people don’t use force to get what they want.” 


EMC A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The North Wind thought that he was stronger than everyone else. 


2, The North Wind blew the jacket off of the man. 


3, The North Wind treated the Sun with disrespect. 


4, The Sun was the target for the North Wind. 


5. The Sun was timid and did not teach the North Wind a lesson. 


6. The North Wind used violence in his bid to be powerful. 


B Answer the questions. 

1. Why was the North Wind so full of enthusiasm? 

a. He thought he was all-powerful. b. He was very rich. 

c. He was the people’s favorite. d. He was going on a date. 


2. Why did the North Wind fill his lungs with air? 

a. To avoid conflict b. To find an alternative to violence 

c. To help his muscles d. To blow air at his target 


3. How was the North Wind causing mischief? 

a. By hurting the Sun b. By leaning on a tree 

c. By blowing harsh wind at the man d. By walking along the terrain 

4. What happened in the meantime while the Sun and the North Wind were talking? 

a. The man started to laugh. b. The man felt the cold air currents. 

c. The man took off his jacket. d. The man began walking along the avenue. 





'Jf 3 





affect [afekt] i/. 

To affect someone or something is to have an influence over them. 

-» The student’s poor attitude affected the other students in the class. 

autograph [5: tag reef] n. 

An autograph is the written name of a famous person. 

-» Everybody wanted the movie star’s autograph. 

bead [bi:d] n. 

A bead is a drop of liquid. 

-* Beads of water collected outside the glass. 

brew [bru i v. 

To brew coffee or tea means to pour hot water over it. 

-♦ Please brew a fresh pot of coffee. 

charm [tja :/m] v. 

To charm someone is to please them with your personality. 

-* Gail charmed everyone with her humorous stories. 

destiny [destani] n. 

A destiny is all the things that happen or will happen to a person in their life.] 
-* It was his destiny to become a great singer. 

horn [horn] n. 

A horn is a device that makes a loud noise. 

- The boy honked his horn while he rode his bicycle past the house. 

irritable [iratabal] adj. 

When someone is irritable, they become annoyed or angry very easily. 

-♦ She is irritable when she doesn’t get enough sleep. 

lag [Iseg] v. 

To lag behind is to move slowly behind other moving objects. 

-* The girl on rollerblades lagged behind the little girl on the bicycle. 

maximize [mseksamaiz] v. 

To maximize something means to make it the biggest in size or amount. 

-* Businesses try to maximize their profits. 


80 



nightmare [naitmfes:/-] n. 

A nightmare is a bad or scary dream. 

The girl was scared to go back to sleep because she had a nightmare. 

nutritious [ryutrijas] adj. 

When something is nutritious, it helps the body stay healthy. 

-> Mangoes are one of the most nutritious fruits in the world. 

protein [prouti:n] n. 

Protein is a substance that is necessary for the body to grow and be strong. 

-* Fish and beef are good sources of protein. 

signature [signatfex] n. 

A signature is your name that you have written in your own way. 

— I put my signature at the end of the letter. 

Stuff [stAfl n. 

Stuff is a word used to refer to things without mentioning the things by name. 
-- We gave a lot of stuff to the charity. 

subconscious [sAbkanJas] adj. 

When something is subconscious, it is done without thinking about it. 

-» Breathing is one of the subconscious things that the body does. 

Van [vaen] n. 

A van is a vehicle that is used for carrying things but is smaller than a truck. 
-* The delivery company uses large vans to deliver packages. 

Warn [wo:m] v. 

To warn someone is to make them know of possible danger in the future. 

-* The lifeguard warned people to stay away from the rough ocean. 

W0rk0Ut [waxkaut] n. 

A workout is an exercise routine that helps improve health. 

-► She doesn’t do her workout on the weekends. 

ZOOm [zu:m] v. 

To zoom is to move quickly. 

-» The cars zoomed along the road. 



Choose the right definition for the given word. 


irritable 
a. to please 

b. 

to get angry easily 

c. 

having a routine 

d. 

healthy 

zoom 

a. to move quickly 

b. 

dangerous 

c. 

healthy 

d. 

to attract 

subconscious 
a. not aware 

b. 

handwritten 

c. 

bad dream 

d. 

pleasing 

charm 

a. to please 

b. 

to make a noise 

c. 

to exercise 

d. 

to influence 

brew 

a. to make coffee 

b. 

to move slowly 

c. 

to have a routine 

d. 

to attract 


e 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 


1. Mary asked for the singer’s handwritten name . 


2. He isn’t allowed to watch scary movies because they give him Md drea ms . 


3. Push everything to one side to make the most of the space of the gymnasium. 


4. He borrowed a truck-like vehicle to help him move some of his furniture. 


5. Ellen wanted to get to the gym and try a new exercise routine . 


6. Harriet doesn’t like talking to Jesse when he’s easily an noyed . 


7. The cars honked their devices f or m aking noises while they waited in traffic. 


8. If you don’t start trying harder, you will move slow ly far behind the rest of us. 


9. The sign makes aware of bears in the area. 


10. Mother cooks me a healthy breakfast every morning. 





II 


Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. This is a good source of protein? 

a. Vegetables b. Tea 

c. Beef d. Sugar 


2. Stuff can be best described as what? 
a. Sports equipment 
c. A computer 


b. A collection of unnamed things 
d. Socks and shoes 


3. What is the most nutritious snack below? 
a. An apple b. 

c. A candy bar d. 


French fries 
Ice cream 


4. What is something you might put your signature on? 

a. A business letter b. A birthday cake 

c. Your hand d. The water 


5. If you lag behind your friends, you . 

a. are slower than them b. are heavier than them 

c. wait for them d. don’t care about them 


6. What are things that happen and will happen in a person’s life? 

a. Their workout b. Their destiny 

c. Their stuff d. Their autograph 

7. Which of the following is similar to a small truck? 

a. Avan b. A horn 

c. A charm d. A lag 

8. What is a small drop of water called? 

a. Bead b. Signature 

c. Protein d. Nutritious 


9. What does it mean to have influence over something? 

a. To charm b. To maximize 

c. To brew d. To affect 

10, What are fire alarms meant to do? 
a. Make people irritable 
c. Warn people 


b. Give children nightmares 
d. Zoom past people 



W" 



The Big Race 


Alex woke up scared because of a nightmare. In it, he was running a race. Just before 
he reached the finish line, he fell. Alex thought that it was a subconscious way that his 
brain was trying to warn him about something. He was going to run in a race that day. 
Did the dream mean he was going to lose? He became irritable. 

“Good morning,” said Alex’s mother. “I brewed some coffee and made you a special 
breakfast.” Alex didn’t want it. It had too much sugar. He needed something nutritious. 
So he prepared a meal that contained a lot of protein to maximize his energy for the race. 
Then his father asked, “Do you want help packing your stuff?” “No,” replied Alex. He wanted 
to make sure that he had all of his equipment forthe race. 

Alex’s family got in their van and drove to the track. When they arrived, a boy ran toward 
Alex. “Can I have your autograph?” asked the boy. Alex had many fans. He usually charmed 
everybody he spoke to. However, today Alex refused to give the boy his signature. He 
needed to think about his race. 

He took his jump rope from his bag and started his usual workout. Maybe exercising 
would help him forget about the nightmare. “The race is about to start,” said the coach. 
Beads of sweat formed out of Alex’s sweat glands. All he could think about was his terrible 
dream. He thought it might be his destiny to become a loser. While he was thinking, he 
didn’t hear the horn that meant the race had started. 

The runners zoomed toward the finish line. By the time Alex started, he lagged far 
behind everyone. He couldn’t run fast enough to catch up to the others. He had lost the 
race! He shouldn’t have let the nightmare affect him. He should have stayed focused on 
the race. 



Reading Comprehension 


KMT A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Alex had a nightmare that he forgot his stuff at home. 


2, The dream made Alex irritable on the day of the race. 


3. Alex wanted to eat something with a lot of sugar for breakfast. 


4, Alex did a workout with his jump rope to help him feel less nervous. 


5. Beads of sweat formed out of Alex’s sweat glands. 


6. Alex lagged behind while the other runners zoomed past him. 


k . . W B Answer the questions. 

l. What did Alex think his destiny might be? 

a. To become irritable b. To become a loser 

c. To maximize energy d. To have nightmares 


2. What did Alex’s father offer to help him do? 

a. Clean the beads of sweat b. Charm the fans for him 

c. Pack his stuff d. Brew some coffee 


3. What did the boy at the track ask Alex for? 

a. His protein b. His autograph 

c. His prize d. His bag 


4. What was Alex so affected by that he lost the race? 

a. His nightmare b. His nutritious meal 

c. The horn d. His signature 


85 





brick [brik] n. 

A brick is a block of hard clay that is used for building things, such as walls. 
— ■ There were several bricks scattered on the ground. 

crumble IkrAmbl] v. 

To crumble means to break or fall apart into small pieces. 

— The old house’s walls crumbled into a pile of rock and wood. 



dough [dou] n. 

Dough is a mixture of flour and water that becomes bread when baked. 

-» / made heart-shaped cookies from the dough. 

express [ikspres] V. 

To express a feeling or idea means to show others how one thinks or feels. 

— The nurse expressed her sympathy for the sick patient. 

fist [fist] n. 

A fist is a hand with fingers bent in toward the palm. 

-* The bully made a fist and threatened to hit the small boy. 

flexible [fleksabal] adj. 

If something is flexible, then it can bend easily without breaking. 

— The tree branch was so flexible it could be bent into a circle and not break, 

flush [fiAj] v. 

To flush means the face becomes red due to heat, illness, or emotion. 

— After the long race, the runner’s face was flushed. 

injure [[nd3ar] V. 

To injure someone means to damage a part of their body. 

— The car crash injured two people. 

lump [lAmp] n. 

A lump is a small piece of something that is solid. 

— The artist took a lump of clay and turned it into a beautiful pot. 

mixture [mikstM n . 

A mixture is something that is made by mixing otherthings together. 

— The walls were built using a mixture of water, rock, and dirt. 


reconcile [rekansail] v. 

To reconcile means to return to a friendly relationship. 

-* After arguing, the two friends were reconciled with each other. 

min [ru:in] v. 

To ruin something means to harm or damage it greatly. 

— Our walk in the park was ruined by the sudden rain. 

Shatter [Jseta:r] y. 

To shatter something means to break it suddenly into many tiny pieces. 
-» When the ball hit the window, the glass shattered. 

shutter [JAtax] n. 

Shutters are wooden or metal covers in front of a window. 

— Mr. Smith closed the shutters every night to make his bedroom dark. 

Sift [sift] v. 

To sift something means to remove all the large pieces. 

— The baker sifted the flour into a large bowl. 

slight [slait] adj. 

If something is slight, then it is small or minor. 

-* There was only a slight change in the little boy’s height. 

sparkle [spa:rkal] v. 

To sparkle means to shine brightly with quick flashes of light. 

— The stars sparkled in the winter night’s sky. 

sprinkle [sprir)kal] v. 

To sprinkle means to scatter something all over something else. 

-*■ He sprinkled the pasta with salt and black pepper. 

stale [steil] adj. 

If food is stale, then it is not fresh but dry, hard, and not good to eat. 

-> The cookies sat on the table so long that they became stale. 

Utter [Atar] 

To utter a word or a sound means to say it. 

-* The lost boy was so scared that he could barely utter a single word. 


87 


Choose the right definition for the given word. 



b. to hate 
d. to cook 


b. a hard piece of clay 
d. a favorite kind of toy 

b. to create 
d. to agree 

b. to fall 
d. to roast 


b. minor 
d. risky 


Choose the answer that best fits the question. 


b. By injuring it 
d. By expressing it 

Which of the following says that two former enemies become friends again? 
a. To reconcile b. To shatter 

c. To utter d. To sparkle 

How would you describe a girl who can stretch her leg behind her head? 
a. A little bit stale b. Very flexible 

c. More than slight d. Ready to crumble 

Which of these would you use to make bread? 

a. A brick b. Some dough 

c. A fist d. A lump 

Which word describes something usually found on windows? 
a. Mixture b. Crumble 

c. Slight d. Shutters 





_ 


■ 






Choose the word that is the better fit for each blank. 

1. brick /lump 

Before the project, the clay was one big . But when he was finished, he 

made a perfectly square . 

2. reconciled / uttering 

Five minutes ago, the two senators were insults at each other, but now 

they have because they both agree with the new law. 

3. shutters / sparkled 

In the middle of the night, she got out of bed and opened the . She 

gazed at the sky where the stars like tiny fires. 

4. flushed / stale 

The rice was not eaten soon enough, so it tasted . It made me feel sick 

and my face became . 

5. crumbled / dough 

The cook picked up the block of cheese and it into little pieces. Then he 

mixed them with the before placing it in the oven. 

6. sift / shattered 

When he started to the flour into the bowl, he slipped and dropped it. 

The bowl hit the ground and . 

7. fist / flexible 

He hit the punching bag with his . Since the bag was , it 

did not break. 

8. sprinkle / mixture 

The of ice cream and chocolate tastes good, but it will be even better if 

you sugar on the top of it. 

9. slight / expressed 

The doctor a lot of concern for my hurt ankle, but I told him the pain 

was only . 

10. ruined / injured 

The ship was when it crashed into the island. Even though it was 

greatly damaged, none of the passengers were . 


The Brothers and the Bread 


m 



Two brothers wanted to go outside and play. However, 
because the only bread in the house was stale, their 
mother told them they needed to bake fresh bread. 

“I have to have the car repaired,” she said. “When I 
return, if the bread is ready, you can play.” 

The brothers hurried to prepare the bread, but not 
carefully. They didn’t sift the flour. They were careless 
and sprinkled too much salt into the mixture. The dough needed 
to be soft and flexible, but the salt made it into a lump that was as hard as a 
brick. 

The younger brother uttered a sigh. “Now we have to start again,” he said. 

“No, we don’t,” the older brother replied. “I’ll fix it. I just need to make the dough flat 
again and add water to it.” 

He decided to hit the ball of dough with his fist to make it flat. But he hit it so hard 
that it flew right off of the table and knocked over a glass, which shattered. The dough 
then crashed into the kitchen window’s shutters and crumbled. Luckily, the brothers 
were not injured, but they did make a huge mess. 

A slight mistake now became a major problem. The brothers had ruined the kitchen. 
Just then their mother returned. She saw the mess and became 
flushed with anger. 

“Now you can’t play,” she said. “Instead, you have to clean 
the kitchen. I want this kitchen to be so clean that it may 

sparkle!” 

The brothers cleaned the floor and expressed their sorrow 
to their mother. Soon, they were reconciled. But there was no 
bread, and it was too late to play. They realized that 
trying to do something quickly often makes more 
work. 








A 






' .-IT A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Because the bread was stale, the mother wanted them to bake fresh bread. 


2, The dough became a lump that was as hard as a brick. 


3. The bread needed to be hard and sturdy. 


4. The older brother uttered a sigh. 


5. The brothers had to clean the kitchen, so it may sparkle. 


6. A major mistake only caused a slight problem. 


BiM? B Answer the questions. 

1. What made the dough into a hard lump? 

a. Not putting in enough water b. Using too much salt 

c. Expressing sadness d. Not sifting the flour 


2. What happened when the older brother hit the dough with his fist? 
a. The dough hit the shutters. b. A glass shattered, 

c. The brothers were injured. d. The dough crumbled. 


3. Why was the mother flushed with anger? 

a. The dough was hard. b. The kitchen was ruined, 

c. The brothers sighed. d. The repair shop was closed. 


4. When were the brothers reconciled with their mother? 

a. As she made fresh bread b. When she returned from the store 

c. Before she left the house d. After they cleaned the kitchen 


U N I 




15 

I W 


II 


•ilk:: 





Word List 


although [□:l<5ou] conj. 

You use although to say that one thing is contrasted by another. 

— * Although she was late, her friends gave her a warm welcome. 

apply [aplai] v. 

To apply something means to put it on. 

-* She always applies makeup to her face before going outside. 

await [aweitl v. 

To await something means to wait for it. 

The players awaited the judge’s decision. 

beloved [bilAvid] adj. 

When something is beloved, it is very special and you like it very much. 

-* The boy took a nap next to his beloved cat. 

bury [beri] y. 

To bury someone or something means to put them in the ground. 

-» They buried their grandfather under his favorite tree after he died. 

climate [klaimit] n. 

A climate is the usual weather in a place. 

-» The climate in the desert is very hot. 

complain [kamplein] v. 

When you complain, you say that you are unhappy about something. 

-» The workers complained that they were being treated unfairly. 

confuse [kanfju:z] v. 

To confuse someone means to make them feel like they are unsure. 

-*■ The sign confused the traveler because it pointed in two directions. 

due [d/u : ] adj. 

When something is due, it is expected to happen or be done at that time. 
-> The papers were due on the 19 th . 

entire [entail adj. 

When you talk about an entire thing, you are talking about the whole thins 
-*■ He was so hungry that he ate the entire pizza by himself. 




establish [ist&biij] v. 

To establish something means to create it. 

— He wanted to establish a club for people to help the Earth. 

furnace i»:mis] n. 

A furnace is a place where heat is made. 

-» Mr. Jones came to fix the furnace. 

leash [li:J] n. 

A leash is a rope or chain that is used to lead an animal. 

-♦ A lot of dogs must wear a leash to keep them from running away. 

mature [mat/ua:/-] v. 

To mature means to grow up to become an adult. 

-> When they matured, they became as tall as their parents. 

measure Impair] v . 

To measure something means to find out the quality, value, or effect of it. 

— The scientists carefully measured the amount of chemicals in the tubes. 

midst [midst] n. 

The midst of something is the middle of it. 

-» She was in the midst of cleaning when the telephone rang. 

misery [mizari] n. 

Misery is extreme suffering. 

— There was a lot of misery after Sam lost his dog. 

prior [praiar] adj. 

When something happened prior to something else, it happened earlier. 
-» Ron had to wait since he arrived prior to the scheduled meeting time. 

research [nsairtj] n. 

Research is close and careful study to discover new things. 

Scientists did a lot of research on the subject of blood type. 

variety [varaiati] n. 

A variety of something is a group of many different kinds of it. 

-> There are a variety of flowers at the shop. 



Choose the word that is a better fit for each blank. 

1. research / await 

After weeks of hard work, the scientists must the results oftheir 


2. misery / beloved 

After the death of her pet, the woman felt nothing but for 

many weeks. 

3. complained / variety 

The store had a of canned vegetables, but the man that 

they didn’t have his favorite brand. 

4. due / confused 

The new schedule passengers who thought the train was 

at 8 a.m. 

5. climate / establish 

The island was a great place to a hotel since the was 

warm throughout the year. 

6. although / prior 

he had a lot of bad luck in the past, he refused to let 

events stop him from moving forward. 

7. furnace / entire 

The was turned uptothe highest temperature, but it couldn’t heat the 

room. 

8. mature / midst 

In the of a terrible war, the young boys had to quickly. 

9. measured / leash 

To make sure the dog’s was long enough, Bob took out a ruler and 

it. 

10. buried /apply 

She insisted that they her mother’s favorite perfume before they 

her. 



P/MT A Match the phrases to make complete sentences. 

1. Although he didn’t know how to dance, . 

2. A furnace keeps . 

3. Florida’s warm climate makes . 

4. He wanted to establish . 

5. The train was due to arrive at . 

6. A lot of research is needed . 

7. Shoppers have a variety of . 

8. In the midst of the game . 

9. A leash keeps . 

10. Her beloved sister . 


a. 

he went to the party anyway 

b. before new medicines can be created 

c. 

a school for blind children 

d. a room warm during the winter 

e. 

a dog from running away 

f. many travelers want to vacation there 

§• 

always calmed her 

h. the team’s best player had to be replaced 

i. 

around seven in the morning 

j. food to choose from at the store 


P/MT B Match the clauses to make complete sentences. 

1. To determine if the new drug was safe, . 

2. His newest book did not sell well, . 

3. He wanted to finish the race, . 

4. He lost his map, . 

5. The soup was cold, . 

6. Sue was very silly as a child, . 

7. No one could find the treasure . 

8. He said he would write to her, . 

9. She wanted to look older, . 

10. Th ey we re th i rsty, . 

a. scientists measured all the effects b. but his prior works were very successful 

c. because the pirate had buried it d. so she applied makeup to her face 

e. but the pain in his ankle gave him too much misery 

f. so she patiently awaited his letters g. so they drank the entire bowl of punch 

h. so the diners complained to the waiter 

i. but she became more serious as she matured 

j. so he became confused 









Laika, the Space Dog 




One of the world’s most beloved space travelers was also the 
furriest. Laika was a little dog living on the streets of Moscow, 

Russia. She matured on the streets because no one would give 
her a home. She had to learn how to live without eating much. She 
found ways to keep warm in a very cold climate. Scientists thought 
a tough dog like Laika would do well in a project they were putting 
together. 

In a prior launch, Russia had put the first man-made object 
into space. Now, scientists wanted to see if a living thing 
could go to space. Although many 
facts about space had been learned, 
they weren’t enough to help send 
humans to space safely. 

Laika and two other dogs were 
chosen to help scientists with 
their research. The animals were 
used in a variety of tests. In the 
end, though, only Laika would go 
to space. On November 3, 1957 the 
Sputnik 2 spaceship was due to leave Earth. 

Scientists carefully applied wires to Laika’s skin to measure her 
body’s reactions once she got into space. Laika also wore a special 
leash. Without it, she would float around in the spaceship. Soon 
after, Laika left the planet. Scientists on Earth awaited information 
from the ship. 

But in the midst of so much excitement, something very sad 
happened. Scientists were able to tell that Laika was under a lot 
of stress. The trip confused and scared her. Laika’s entire ship 
had become as hot as a furnace. Scientists were powerless to 
help the dog in her misery. After about five hours, Laika died. 

Some have complained that the little dog should never have 
been used in the mission. Scientists knew that she would 
not survive the trip. Laika was never buried, but a memorial 
has been established in Moscow. There are many songs and 
books about her, too. It seems that Laika became a hero to 
many people. 


*§rm rr 



P/MT A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 


2. Why did Laika die during the trip? 

a. The ship became as hot as a furnace. 

b. The scientists were under a lot of stress. 

c. Living things cannot survive in space. 

d. The scientists didn’t get information from her. 

3. Scientists made Laika wear a special leash because they . 

a. were awaiting information from the ship b. were not able to bury her 

c. didn’t want her to float around the ship d. needed to adjust the climate 


statements to make them true. 

1. Scientists did a variety of tests for research before the Sputnik 2 was due to 

leave. 


2. Wires were applied to Laika’s leash so that scientists could find the ship. 


3. Although Laika could not be buried, a spaceship was established in her honor. 


4. 


In the midst of the scientists’ excitement, Laika’s ship became too hot. 


5. In a prior launch, scientists sent two other dogs into space. 


6 . 


Many people complained that Laika should not have gone to space. 


P/MF B Answer the questions. 

1. Why did scientists choose Laika forthe mission? 


a. She was tough. 

c. The trip to space confused her. 


b. She was a beloved space traveler, 
d. She needed to wear a special leash. 


4. Why did scientists apply wires to Laika’s skin? 

a. To measure her body’s reactions b. To allow her to mature 

c. To take her for the entire trip d. To return her to Earth 



altogether [6:ltagedar] adv. 

If something happens altogether, it happens completely. 

— The company stopped using sugar altogether in its food. 

bind [baind] v. 

To bind is to bring people together. 

— The victims of the flood were bound by their need to help each other. 

bruise [bru:z] n. 

A bruise is a dark mark caused by being hit by something. 

— She got a bruise on her knee from falling down. 

CUStOm [kAstam] n. 

A custom is a way of doing things that has been the same for a long time. 
-* It is a custom that the bride and groom have the first dance. 

disobedient [di sabkdiant] adj. 

When someone is disobedient, they do not follow the rules or instructions. 
-* The disobedient children didn’t listen to their mother and had an accident 

foresee [fairs?:] v. 

To foresee something is to know about it before it happens. 

-♦ The teacher didn’t foresee any problems with her large class. 

glimpse [glimps] v. 

To glimpse something is to see it for a short time. 

-♦ She glimpsed outside the window as the plane was about to land. 

hoop [hu;p] n. 

A hoop is a ring that is made of plastic, metal, or wood. 

-* The boys tried to toss the ball through the basketball hoop. 

misfortune [misfairtjan] n. 

Misfortune is bad luck or an unlucky event. 

~+ His family helped him when he encountered misfortune. 

negative [negativ] adj. 

When something is negative, it is unpleasant or sad. 

-» She doesn’t like to say negative things about her friends. 





per [par] prep. 

Per is used to mean “each” when giving a price, size, or amount. 

-► It costs $8 per person to watch the baseball game. 

plead [pn :di v. 

To plead is to ask for something you want very badly. 

-» He pleaded for his parents to let him go to the soccer game. 

rip [rip] y. 

To rip something means to pull it apart. 

-» She ripped the paper in half by accident. 

sake [seikl n. 

The sake of something is the reason for doing it. 

-> The parents worked hard for their children’s sake. 

scrape [skreip] v. 

To scrape something is to rub it very hard with something sharp. 

-» I accidentally scraped the paint off the side of the car. 

source [so:rs] n. 

A source of something is the place that it comes from. 

-» The river was the source of drinking water for the village. 

Stern [stem] adj. 

When somebody is stern, they are very serious. 

-» The stern teacher didn’t allow the students to speak during class. 

stitch istitj] v. 

To stitch is to use a needle and thread to join pieces of cloth together. 
-» My grandmother stitched the pieces together to make a big blanket. 

thump [eAmp] n. 

A thump is the sound of a heavy object falling. 

-* They heard the thump when the bowling ball hit the floor. 

vehement [vi:0m 9 nt] adj. 

When somebody is vehement, they are angry and emotional. 

Gina was vehement when she found out that Liz was bad in school. 







Choose the word that is the better fit for each blank. 

1. negative / misfortune 

Greg had the of falling in a pool, though he didn’t know how to swim. 

The experience left him with feelings about swimming pools. 

2. bruise / altogether 

After one day, the on her lip began to go away. In a week, it had 

disappeared . 

3. per / sake 

For the of fairness, we tried to divide the pizza equally. One pizza was 

enough to give three slices person. 

4. disobedient / pleaded 

A woman with the child to behave in the store. The child, however, 

continued to be . 

5. source / glimpsed 

They walked past a large river, which the guide said was the of a 

waterfall. They finally the waterfall when they reached the bottom of 

the hill. 

6. stitched / hoop 

The girl wanted to make her plastic look pretty, so she 

cloth around it. 

7. custom / bind 

The family was tightly. For example, on Saturdays, it was their 

to go to the park together. 

8. stern / ripped 

The teacher was angry to see the students passing notes. She took the 

note from the students and it into pieces. 

9. thump / scraped 

The boy lost his balance and fell with a . When he got up, he noticed 

that he’d his elbow. 


10. vehement / foresee 

The coach didn’t the loss for his team. So, after the game, he was 




Ku' A Match the phrases to make complete sentences. 

1. Kelly had the misfortune of breaking . 

2. The disobedient dog ran away . 

3. She felt bound to her friends because she had . 

4. The weatherman didn’t foresee any . 

5. The family had a custom of . 

6. She glimpsed at his painting . 

7. Charlie ripped the paper in half and . 

8. Jasmine pleaded with herteacher . 

9. Leslie scraped the ice . 

10. George was vehement about being allowed . 


a. gave one piece to his friend 

c. from its owner at the park 

e. to give her a better grade 

g. to use the computer 

i. her arm before the competition 


b. bad weather this weekend 

d. off the window 

f. known them fora longtime 

h. eating dinner early on Sundays 
j. before it was completed 


P/MT B Match the clauses to make complete sentences. 

1. There was a tear in my shirt, 

2. She dropped the scissors on the carpet, . 

3. His parents were strict, . 

4. The website was good, . 

5. The fight was horrifying, . 

6. I enjoy soda, . 

7. He went to school despite being sick . 

8. They used a different system .. 

He liked showing off, . 

He fell down the stairs, . 

a. so he tried jumping through the hoop 

b. because the sake of his grade depended on it 

c. but only 2 cans per week d. so my mom stitched it back together 

e. so he had bruises on his arm f. that was altogether different from mine 

g. it filled him with negative dreams h. because stern rules built character 

i. so there was a slight thump j. but the sources were unreliable 




Gwen’s New Friends 


Gwen walked into the gym for her next class. Coach Peeves said, “Today, we’re playing 
basketball. The custom is to let you choose your own teams. However, we’re going to do 
things differently.” 

The coach assigned each girl to a team. There were six girls per team. Gwen glimpsed 
at herteammates. She didn’t know any of them. All of herfriends were on the otherteams. 
She couldn’t believe her misfortune. 

“I feel sick. May I go to the nurse?” asked Gwen. 

The coach could foresee Gwen’s excuses. It wasn’t the first time Gwen tried to leave 
class. With a stern voice, the coach said, “No.” 

Gwen was vehement. “I don’t know any of these girls! Let me play on another team. 
Please!” she pleaded. 

“Gwen, don’t be disobedient. I don’t want to hear any more negative comments from 


you. 

Gwen had no choice. Then a girl smiled at her. “Hi, I’m Stephanie. I was in your English 
class last year,” she said. Gwen remembered her. “For the sake of the team, please try 
your best. I know you’re a good player,” said 
Stephanie. 

When the game started, Gwen played 
as best as she could. She took a long shot. 

The ball sailed through the air and went 
right through the hoop! 

“That was awesome!” said one of 
herteammates. Later, Gwen fell with 
a loud thump. 

“Are you OK?” asked her 
teammates. They were worried. 

She had ripped her jeans. She 
had scraped her knee and had a 
small bruise. 

Gwen told herteammates, 

“My knee is fine, and I can 
stitch my pants later. Let’s keep 
playing!” 

By the end of the game, 

Gwen forgot altogether that 
she hadn’t wanted to play, and 
her team won! The victory bound 
Gwen’s team together. She had made 
a lot of new friends, and they were a 
source of happiness for her for many 
years. 



MB? A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The custom was to allow the girls to choose their own teams. 


2. Gwen told her teammates that she could stitch her pants later. 


3. There were eight girls per team. 


4. Gwen pleaded to be on another team that had some of her friends. 


5. Stephanie asked Gwen to lose on purpose for the sake of the team. 


6. Gwen ripped her jeans, scraped her knee, and got a bruise when she fell. 


MB? B Answer the questions. 

1. Why did Coach Peeves speak to Gwen in a stern voice? 


a. For falling with a thump 
c. For choosing her own team 

2. How did Gwen know Stephanie? 

a. They were old friends, 
c. They could foresee the team. 


b. For making negative comments 
d. For having misfortune 

b. They were vehement. 

d. They had an English class together. 


3. What happened after Gwen’s shot went through the hoop? 

a. She faced the stern coach. b. Her teammate said it was awesome, 

c. She changed teams. d. She forgot about the rules altogether. 

4. How were the girls on Gwen’s team bound together? 

a. They were all disobedient. b. They won the game, 

c. They chose a new team. d. They all had bruises. 


103 



Word List 


civilization [sivalizeijsn] n. 

A civilization is an organized group of humans that have culture and government 
-»• Most early civilizations in Central America didn’t use metal weapons. 

Convenient [kanvknjent] adj. 

When something is convenient, it is easy to do and does not take a lot of work. 

— The bus is a convenient way to get to school. 

den [den] n. 

A den is a living space for some types of animals, such as lions. 

-» The mother lion left her babies in the den. 

dew [d/u:] n. 

Dew is the drops of water that form on the ground outside during the night 

— When we woke up, we saw that the grass was covered in dew. 

drastic [draestik] adj. 

When something is drastic, it is extreme or major. 

— She made a drastic decision to get her long hair cut short. 

exit [egzit] v. 

To exit means to leave. 

-* The students exited through the front door. 

flock [flak] n. 

A flock is a group of animals, such as birds, sheep or goats. 

-» There was one black sheep in the entire flock. 

fold [fould] v. 

To fold is to bend something like paper or cloth so that it takes up less space. 

I folded the paper and put it in my pocket. 

lid [lid] n. 

A lid is a top for a box or container that can be removed. 

-* He lifted the lid of the box and revealed her present. 

loom [lu m] v. 

To loom is to seem very large and often scary. 

-* The ominous clouds loomed over the school. 




mighty [maiti] adj. 

When something is mighty, it is strong and large. 

— The mighty wrestler scared all who faced him. 

mushroom [mAfru(:)m] n. 

A mushroom is a fungus with a round top. Some are used as food. 

-*■ The soup had fresh mushrooms in it. 

native [neitiv] adj. 

When something is native, it is originating in a certain place or area. 

— Avocadoes are native fruits of Mexico. 

poison [poizan] n. 

Poison is a dangerous substance that causes illness or death. 

-> They used poison to get rid of the rats in their home. 

reed [red] n. 

Reeds are tall and skinny plants that grow in groups near water. 

—■ The sun set behind the reeds of the lake’s shore. 

shield [ji id] * 

To shield something is to protect it. 

-» She shielded her eyes from the sun with sunglasses. 

stormy [stoxmi] adj. 

Stormy describes something affected or characterized by storms. 

-* The golfers decided to go home because of the stormy weather. 

sway [swei] v. 

To sway is to move slowly from side to side. 

-» She swayed while she listened to the music. 

urban [arban] adj. 

When something is urban, it is related to the city. 

-* Subways are an important form of urban transportation. 

wade [weid] v. 

To wade is to walk in or pass through water. 

-* The child waded in the water at the beach. 


105 



Choose the word that is the better fit for each blank. 

1. convenient / lid 

The box had a that was very easy to open. It was a place 

to store the young girl’s toys. 

2. shield / folded 

When it started raining, I my newspaper in half. Then I carried it over 

my head to myself from the rain. 

3. exit / urban 

She wasn’t used to spending time in an setting. After only a few days, 

she was glad to the city. 

A. mighty / civilization 

The soldier spent three weeks alone in the forest. When he returned to 

, he was stronger than ever. 

5. stormy / swayed 

The branches of the trees as the wind blew. The wind was strongerthan 

usual because of the weather. 

6. reeds / waded 

The boys to the middle of the lake. At that point, they couldn’t go any 

further because the grew too thickly. 

7. dew / flock 

The of geese chose not to land in the field because it was still wet with 


8. poison / drastic 

Some plants contain that can be eliminated by cooking. The cooking 

process results in a change to the plant’s chemical makeup. 

9. den / mushrooms 

There was little light inside the where the bears lived. Outside, there 

was little plant life, just a few and some small weeds. 

10. native / loomed 

The animals of the island knew how to protect themselves from bad 

weather. When a storm , they immediately ran for cover. 




Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. The plant is filled with a dangerous subst ance. 

2. The man asked for extra fungus with a round top for his sauce. 

3. My socks got wet when I walked in the drops o f waterthat formed outside . 

4. Madagascar has an interesting group of original animals and plants. 

5. The boy put on a scarf to protect his neck from the cold wind. 

6. Alyssa found a small living place where she thought a rabbit lived. 

7. The man ben t the letter and put it into an envelope. 

8. The farmer traded his group of anim als of goats for a new horse. 

9. I was not strong enough to lift the top part of the container . 

10. After the movie was over, the audience left through the back door. 



D 


Choose the answer that best fits the question. 


1 . 

What word below best describes a superhero? 




a. Mushrooms b. Dew 

c. Mighty 

d. 

Reeds 

2. 

Something that is easy to do is described as what? 




a. Drastic b. Convenient 

c. Poison 

d. 

Urban 

3. 

What is an activity done in the water? 





a. Sway b. Fold 

c. Exit 

d. 

Wade 

4. 

Which covers a box? 





a. A den b. A lid 

c. A civilization 

d. 

A flock 

5. 

Which word fits best? Koalas are 

to Australia. 




a. loom b. shield 

c. stormy 

d. 

native 




Kara Goes Camping 

“Kara, would you like to go camping with my family?” asked Tracy. Kara had never been 
camping before, but she decided to go anyway. That weekend, they drove to Estes Park. 
When they arrived, Kara looked around. She felt so far from civilization. 

After they set up the camp, they went for a walk. Tracy’s father, Mr. Grieves, showed 
them the native plants and animals. “Look,” he said, “that’s a fox’s den. Do you see that 
bunch of mushrooms next to it. Don’t touch them. They contain poison.” Kara was bored. 
She didn’t care about nature. 

As the day went on, mighty clouds soon loomed in the distance. “It looks like stormy 
weather,” said Tracy. “We should go back.” It suddnely began to rain. They used an umbrella 
to shield them from the rain. Back at the camp, they ate cold sandwiches for dinner and 
went to sleep. 

By morning, the rain had stopped. It was a drastic change from the previous day’s weather. 
They folded their sleeping bags and put them in a box. Tracy closed the lid and told Kara, 
“Today will be fun, I promise!” Kara didn’t believe her. She missed her convenient life in 
the city. She was used to an urban lifestyle. 

After breakfast, they went for a walk. The grass was covered with dew, and it gleamed 
in the sunlight. Finally, they reached a lake. Kara and Tracy waded into the water. The reeds 
swayed in the wind, and a flock of birds flew above. Kara felt very peaceful. 

That night, they made a fire. They sat around it while Mr. Grieves told scary stories. Kara 
had a lot of fun. Camping was a good way for friends to spend time together, she realized, 

The next day, it was time for them to leave. She felt sad while they exited the park. 
She didn’t like camping at first, but she learned how fun it could be over the weekend. 


P/MT A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Tracy invites Kara to visit a new civilization with her family. 


2. Tracy’s father shows them native plants and animals. 


3. The group returns to camp because mighty clouds were looming. 


4. They used an umbrella to shield themselves from the rain. 


5. The weather was stormy on the second day of camping. 


6. Kara has a drastic change in opinion about camping at the end of the story. 


MiF B Answer the questions. 

1. Which of the following does Kara NOT see during the trip? 
a. A fox’s den b. A flock of birds 

c. A bunch of mushrooms d. An animal with poison 


2. What does Kara miss about her urban lifestyle? 

a. It is convenient. b. It is easier to sleep, 

c. It is far from civilization. d. It isn’t covered in dew. 


3. What does Kara see swaying in the water? 

a. Birds b. Fish 

c. Reeds d. Lids 

4. How does Kara feel as she exits the park? 

a. Relieved b. Angry 

c. Tired d. Sad 


accent [aeksent] n. 

An accent is a certain way of speaking that shows where a person is from. 
-* The new teacher’s accent was clearly a German one. 

barber [ba:rbar] n. 

A barber is a person whose job is to cut hair. 

-* My hair is getting much too long. I’d better go to the barber’s shop. 

basement [beismant] n. 

A basement of a house or building is a room that is built underground. 

— They turned their basement into a game room. 

blank [biaenk] adj. 

When something is blank, it does not have anything on it. 

-* She got a blank paper to draw on. 

blink [blirjk] V. 

To blink means to shut the eyes and quickly open them again. 

— I blinked many times so that my eyes could adjust to the bright light. 

choir [kwaiar] n. 

A choir is a group of people who sing together. 

-» He had choir practice every day after school. 

COmiC [kdrnik] adj. 

When something is comic, it is funny. 

— The comic actor was famous for his jokes. 

complicate [kamplikeit] v. 

To complicate something means to make it harder than necessary. 

-* The bad weather complicated finishing the job quickly. 

decline [diklain] v. 

To decline an offer or invitation means to say no to it. 

She declined his offer to pay for her dinner. 

errand lerand] n. 

An errand is a trip taken to do a specific activity. 

-► He couldn’t go to practice because he had several errands to do. 


18 


glove [glAv] n. 

A glove is a piece of clothing that covers your fingers and hand. 

-* When it gets cold, I always put on a pair of gloves. 

hermit [haxmit] n. 

A hermit is one who lives alone and does not spend time with others. 

— The hermit lived a simple life in a small cave in the forest. 

jliStly [d3Astli] adv. 

If something is done justly, then it is fair. 

-» We justly decided to give the prize to him. 

leather Desex] n. 

Leather is a material made from animal skin that is used to make clothing. 
-* He got a new leather jacket for his birthday. 

ponder [panda/-] v. 

To ponder something is to think about it carefully. 

-* She sat in the park and pondered her problem. 

reserve [nz §:/v] v. 

To reserve something means to keep it for a certain person or time. 

-*• He reserved a table at the busy restaurant. 

script [skript] n. 

A script is the words of a film or play. 

-» He read the script of the play three times. 

search [saxtj] v. 

To search for something or someone means to look for them carefully. 

-* I searched the newspaper fora new job. 

slam [slasm] v. 

To slam is to close something hard. 

-► She slammed the book shut after she finished reading it. 

Staircase [stcarkeis] n. 

A staircase is a set of stairs found inside a building. 

-♦ The staircase leads directly into the kitchen. 


PCMT A Choose the right word for the given definition. 

1. an underground room 



a. accent 

b. 

basement 


c. a technique 

d. 

errand 

2. 

to think about something 




a. complicate 

b. 

reserve 


c. ponder 

d. 

slam 

3. 

the written words of a play or film 




a. script 

b. 

blank 


c. barber 

d. 

gloves 

4. 

a group that sings 




a. hermits 

b. 

leather 


c. choir 

d. 

staircases 

5. 

in a fairway 




a. comic 

b. 

decline 


c. searching 

d. 

justly 


P&Bfu 7 B Choose the right definition for the given word. 

l. 

slam 



a. to close loudly 

b. to be careful 


c. to close the eyes 

d. to save 

2. 

decline 



a. to look for 

b. to say no 


c. to be right 

d. fair 

3. 

hermit 



a. clothing foryou hands 

b. something that is funny 


c. a trip to do something 

d. a person who is alone 

4. 

leather 



a. a distinct way of speaking 

b. material used to make clothing 


c. an underground room 

d. a piece of clothing for the hands 

5. 

barber 



a. a singing group 

b. a person who cuts hair 


c. a set of stairs 

d. phrases that form a play 





P/MT A Match the phrases to make complete sentences. 

1. The writer’s comic stories . 

2. Donna usually ran errands . 

3. I tried to reserve . 

4. She wanted to join the choir . 

5. A beautiful staircase . 

6. The speaker’s strong accent . 

7. Roger pondered a long time . 

8. The hermit . 

9. I remembered to make sure I had my gloves , 

10. The large basement . 


a. after hearing them sing in church 
c. before buying a new car 

e. always make me laugh 

g. led up to the second floor 

i. just before I left the house 


b. made him hard to understand 
d. some seats for this week’s show 

f. makes a great playroom 

h. slept in small cave 
j. right before coming home from work 


Wfti B Match the clauses to make complete sentences. 

1. I put some medicine in my eyes, . 

2. The boy’s mom yelled at him for getting mud on the couch, . 

3. He asked Sara to see the scary movie, . 

4. He spent the period daydreaming. So when he turned in his test, 

5. The new play was great . 

6. I didn’t pay attention in class, . 

7. My hair was a mess, . 

8. He couldn’t stand the sound of the music, . 

9. Dean and Anne finished the race at the same time, . 

10. He lost his glasses, . 


the script 


a. because Tony spent a lot of time on 

b. so he cleaned the leather couch 


c. so I went to see the barber d. 

e. but she declined f. 

g. it was completely blank h. 

i. so I had to keep blinking them j. 


so both were justly given medals 
so the homework was very complicated 
so he had to search for them for an hour 
so he left the room and slammed the door 




The School Play 

Peter was excited. Next week he was going to audition for the school play. Everybody 
knew he was a great actor. He was sure he would get the lead role. 

Later, his friend Robby asked him, “Have you seen the script for the play?” 

“Yes. The title is The Lost Glove— it’s a comic play,” replied Peter. 

Robby said, “I want to play the part of the hermit because the hermit gets to talk with 
an accent!” 

“I want the lead role of the barber. I didn’t know you liked acting. I thought you liked 
choir better,” said Peter. 

“Acting is also a hobby of mine. Do you want to practice with me? The basement at my 
house is quiet. It’s perfect!” Robby replied. 

“I don’t like practicing with others. It complicates the process for me,” said Peter. 

Actually, Peter didn’t want to practice at all. The teacher would surely reserve the lead 
part for him. A few days later, Robby came to his house. 

Robby said, “Do you want to practice the scene on the staircase? It’s the part where 
the migrant searches for a new job.” 

Peter declined the invitation. “I can’t today. I need to do some errands.” Then he 
slammed the door. It was just an excuse. Peter didn’t want to help Robby. 

On the day of auditions, Peter wore his lucky leather jacket. He always got the best 
part when he wore it. The teachertold him to begin, but his mind was blank. He couldn’t 
remember the lines! 

A week later, the teacher put a list of the parts on the wall. Peter read the list, looking 
for his name. He was shocked by what he saw. He blinked his eyes and looked again. He 
didn’t get the lead part— Robby did! Peter pondered the situation and came to the idea 
that Robby justly received the part. He earned it by practicing. Next time, Peter would 
practice, too. 


fu' A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 


.The title of the script was The Big Barber. 


2. Robby wanted the part of the hermit because he would get to talk with an accent. 


3. Robby declined Peter’s offer to practice together. 


4. The scene on the staircase was about the migrant searching for a new job. 


5. Peter’s mind was blank during the audition. 


6. Peter felt that Robby justly received the lead role. 


B Answer the questions. 

1. Why did Peter decide not to practice? 

a. He didn’t want the part. 

b. He thoughtthe teacherwould give him the role. 

c. He disliked Robby. 

d. He wanted to be in the choir instead. 

2. Where did Robby suggest they practice together? 

a. Atthe school b. In his basement 

c. At the theater d. In the park 

3. What was Peter’s first excuse for not practicing with Robby? 

a. He had to run errands. b. He had to study for a test, 

c. He said it complicated the process. d. Robby lived too far away. 

4. What kind of play were the boys auditioning for? 

a. Romance b. Comic 

c. Drama d. Action 


115 


• • 



afflicted [afliktid] adj. 

Afflicted means to suffer physically or mentally. 

-* He was afflicted by pain in his right arm. 

aisle [ail] n. 

An aisle is a space between two things that people use to walk. 

— They were told to clear the aisle because the plane was about to land. 

atmosphere [aetmasfiar] n. 

The atmosphere is the air around the Earth where weather conditions form. 
-♦ Scientists worry that harmful substances are hurting the atmosphere. 

author [5:ear] n. 

An author is a person who wrote a certain piece of writing. 

-» The author was hard at work on his next novel. 

breakdown [breikdaun] n. 

A breakdown is a failure to work correctly. 

— Her car had a breakdown, and she wasn’t sure how to fix it. 

cargo [kargou] n. 

Cargo is the items carried by a ship or airplane. 

The cargo of the ship got wet when it started raining. 

chapter [tfaeptar] n. 

A chapter is a part of a book that usually has a number or a title. 

— The first chapter of a book usually introduces the main character of a story. 

connect [kanekt] v. 

To connect two things means to join them together. 

-» / connected the mouse to my laptop computer. 

etc. [etsetara] n. 

Etc. is short for “etcetera.” It is used to refer to other unspecified objects. 
-* She was going to bring treats to the party: cookies, muffins, cake, etc. 

flip [flip] v. 

To flip means to press a switch quickly to turn it on or off. 

-» To turn on the lights, just flip this switch. 






idle [aidl] adj. 

If you are idle, you are not doing anything. 

-* She read a book to keep from being idle. 

notify [noutafai] v. 

To notify someone of something is to tell them about it. 

-> The teacher notified us about a change to our assignment. 

pea [pi:] n. 

Peas are a vegetable that is small, round and green. 

-» His favorite food was peas. 

raisin [reizen] n. 

A raisin is a dried grape. 

-» Raisins are one of my favorite snacks. 

retain [ritein] v. 

To retain something is to keep it. 

-> Even by the afternoon, the day had retained the morning’s freshness. 

State [steit] v. 

To state something means to say it in a definite way. 

-*■ The president stated his opinion about the world’s health concerns. 

tray [trei] n. 

A tray is a flat plate used to hold food. 

-* The waiter brought our food on a tray. 

unfortunate [Anfo:rtJemt] adj. 

If something is unfortunate, it is bad or unlucky. 

-» It was unfortunate that Dave’s team lost, but he still had fun. 

vivid [vivid] adj. I 

When something is vivid, it is bright and colorful. 

— The figures in the painting were vivid. 

vomit [vdmit] V. 

To vomit means to have food come up from one’s stomach. 

— It is common for women to vomit when they are pregnant. 


in 



Ml 


Exe 



Choose the right definition for the given word. 


1. 

cargo 
a. space 

b. items 

c. air 

d. 

list 

2. 

retain 
a. to keep 

b. to join 

c. to do 

d. 

to press a switch 

3. 

vivid 

a. to not work 

b. bright 

c. end 

d. 

vegetable 

4. 

raisin 

a. division 

b. grape 

c. air 

d. 

writer 

5. 

idle 

a. doing nothing 

b. affected 

c. plate 

d. 

to have food come up 



Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. Scientists do not completely understand the air that surrounds the Earth . 


2. The police officer said in a definite wav that he arrived at exactly 1:15 PM. 


3. The teacher asked the students to read three divisions in a book. 


4. Carolyn told me that she would be late to the meeting. 


5. His mother brought his food to him on a flat serving plate . 


6. Gina was affected with guilt because her brother got hurt while she watched him. 


7. Islands like Bali, Hawaii, Brunei, and the others similar , rely on tourism. 


8. The flight attendant asked me to keep my bag out of the space between the seats . 


9. The computer's failure to work caused major problems at work. 


10. The person who wrote the book was nice enough to sign my copy of his book. 









\PIMH A Match the phrases to make complete sentences. 

1. Connect your seat belt . 

2. Patty was afflicted by . 

3. The cargo was lost when the door . 

4. The school will notify your . 

5. The author of the book . 

6. Flip the switch . 

7. After the breakdown, . 

8. Katie said her peas were . 

9. Vanessa had raisins . 


The last chapter of the book. 


a. as a snack before dinner 

b. she had to get a new car 

c. a disease that made her tired 

d. has written many others as well 

e. when the image comes into view 

f. before you begin driving 

g. was accidentally opened 

h. was the most interesting 

i. parents if you are late 

j. too sour to eat 


GEMT B Match the clauses to make complete sentences. 

1. There were many items that the customer ordered, . 

2. The manager was unhappy . 

3. The meat had gone bad, . 

4. Jay was rushed to the hospital, . 


5. Her blouse was so colorful when she bought it, . 

6. Judy danced beautifully, . 

7. He tried to keep busy, . 

8. Sammy tried to get through to the bathroom, 

9. He sold most of his clothes, . 

10. Sarah became quite ill . 


a. but he retained his favorite shirt 
c. and it made many people vomit 
e. so she put them on the tray 
g. because no one stated the truth 
i. but the aisle was crowded 


b. but her unfortunate mistake hurt her 
d. but he always found himself being idle 
f. because the atmosphere was polluted 
h. so his aunt, dad, mom, etc met him there 
j. but the vivid colors faded after a week 











Isaac’s First Plane Trip 

Isaac’s family was going on vacation. He was excited about the trip except for one 
thing. He had never been on a plane before. He was scared that his plane would have a 

breakdown. 

Isaac got onto the plane. He walked down the aisle until he found his seat. He sat 
down and connected the ends of his seat belt. After being idle for a few minutes, the 
pilot announced that they were ready to leave. 

He looked out the window at the vivid colors of the sky. He began to feel scared. The 
girl sitting next to him said, “Hi, I’m Rachel! You look nervous, but you don’t need to be. 
Flying is fun!” 

“I’m still a bit nervous,” Issac said, “and I’m getting hungry.” 

“The food service will begin soon. Just lower the tray on the seat in front of you, and 
flip this switch. Then they’ll bring your dinner! Last time, they served chicken, peas, and 
a box of raisins,” Rachel explained. 

Then the pilot notified the passengers of bad conditions in the atmosphere. “We’re 
tracking the weather: lightning, clouds, etc. The ride might get a bit rough,” he stated. 

Suddenly, the plane started to shake. Isaac was badly afflicted by his fear. His stomach 
hurt, and he thought he might vomit. He couldn’t believe that he was in such an unfortunate 
place. Finally, the shaking stopped. Isaac was still scared, but he tried to retain a good 
attitude. 

“The first time I flew, the plane shook so bad that cargo started falling. My parents told 
me to listen to music and read a chapter in my book. It calmed me,” Rachel said. 

Suddenly, the plane shook again. This time, Isaac followed Rachel’s advice. He put on 
headphones and took out a book by his favorite author. The book and the music helped 
Isaac feel better. After a while, he didn’t even notice the bad weather. The bad situation 
didn’t feel so bad after someone helped him. 


19 


Reading Comprehension 


P/^ElF A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Isaac was scared the plane would have a breakdown. 


2. Isaac ate raisins and peas and read a book by his favorite author. 


3. Rachel’s parents suggested she read a chapter in her book when she was scared. 


4. Isaac’s fear went away as soon as he took a nap. 


5. The pilot stated that the conditions in the atmosphere were sun, wind, etc. 


6. Isaac was scared, but he tried to retain a good attitude. 


PGMF B Answer the questions. 


1. What would happen if Isaac flipped the 

a. The cargo would fall. 

c. He would vomit. 

2. What did Isaac do as the plane left? 

a. He played with Rachel. 

c. He fell asleep. 


switch? 

b. They would bring him his dinner, 
d. They would bring him some water. 


b. He was idle. 

d. He looked at the vivid sky. 


3. What did Isaac think when the plane first started shaking? 

a. He was in an unfortunate place. b. He was afflicted by pain, 

c. The pilot made a mistake. d. His food would fall off the tray. 


4. What happened the first time Rachel was on a plane? 

a. The dinner service was late. b. She had to wait in the aisle, 

c. The cargo fell from above. d. Her seat belt wasn’t connected. 


121 



betray [bitrei] v. 

To betray someone means to treat them in a dishonest way. 

— The man betrayed his country when he gave away national secrets. 

blast [blaest] n. 

A blast is a loud noise made by something that explodes. 

-» There was a loud blast when the police officer fired the gun. 

bracelet [breisiit] n. 

A bracelet is a piece of jewelry that you wear around your wrist. 

— My father gave me a pretty gold bracelet for my birthday. 

cease [si:s] v. 

To cease means to stop. 

— After about an hour, the rain ceased, and a rainbow appeared. 

choke [tjouk] v. 

To choke means to cough because you have difficulty breathing. 

-* There was a lot of smoke in the air, and it made me choke. 

civil [sival] adj. 

When an event is civil, it happens inside a country. 

-» The country was torn apart by a terrible civil war. 

comment [kament] V. 

To comment means to say something that shows your personal opinion. 
-*■ Tom commented on the poor quality of the food. 

CrOSS [kro:s] v. 

To cross means to go from one side to the other side. 

— We used his boat to cross to the other side of the lake. 

dent [dent] n. 

A dent is damage caused by something heavy hitting something else. 

-♦ That blue car hit my car, and now there is a small dent in my car door. 

distrust [distrAst] v. 

To distrust someone means to believe that they are not honest. 

-*■ Don’t lend money to someone if you distrust them! 








•* 


fort [fo :rt] n. 

A fort is a small building that is specially built to defend an area from attack. 

When the army arrived , they built a big fort on the top of the hill. 

found [faund] v. 

To found means to bring something into existence. 

— ■ The pastor founded his church in the countryside. 

lining Uaininl n. 

Lining is a piece of cloth that covers the inside of clothes. 

-» This jacket is very warm because it has a thick lining. 

maSS [maas] n. 

A mass is a large number of things of one type. 

— We received a mass of letters this morning. 

pray [prei] * 

To pray means to talk to God. 

— When people go to church, they pray for their families and friends. 

rife [raif] adj. 

If a place is rife with something bad, it is very common in that place. 

— This part of the country is rife with disease. 

sole [soul] adj. I 

When something is the sole thing, it is the only thing of a particular type. 

— His sole purpose in life was to help others. 

sweep [swi:p] v. I 

If you sweep the floor, you clean it with a tool like a broom or a brush. 

-*■ There is a lot of dirt on the floor. Can you sweep it please? 

treachery [tretjsri] n. 

Treachery is a behavior in which a person betrays a country or a person. 

-* The man ran away to escape from the treachery of his wife. 

tuck [tAk] K 

To tuck something means to put it somewhere so that it is neat or safe. 

-*• He looked sloppy without his shirt being tucked into his pants. 

■ i 



Choose the right word for the given definition. 


1. 

to clean with a broom 





a. sweep b. betray 

c. pray 

d. 

choke 

2. 

to say your opinion 





a. comment b. cross 

c. cease 

d. 

distrust 

3. 

to bring into existence 





a. sole b. dent 

c. tuck 

d. 

found 

4. 

a piece of jewelry 





a. civil b. bracelet 

c. mass 

d. 

fort 

5. 

a loud explosion 





a. treachery b. blast 

c. rife 

d. 

lining 




Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. The lucky man was the only winner of the grand prize. 


2. She was so worried about her mother’s health that she went to church to talk to God. 


3. He coughed and had difficulty breathing after eating a large piece of food. 


4. The rain stopped in the early morning after pouring all night long. 


5. There is a large number of people in the park today. 


6. I hit the wall with my car, and now there is a small amount of damage in it. 


7. I don’t believe the honesty of people who always try to borrow money. 


8 . The conditions in some parts of Africa are very poor, and disease is very common . 


9. The man behaved in an untrustworthy wav toward his friends. 


10. I’m going to go to the other side of the road to meet my friend. 










Choose the word that is the better fit for each blank. 

1. blast / choke 

The threw a lot of smoke into the air, and it made me 


2. treachery / fort 

The army built a to defend themselves from their former ally’s . 

3. sweep / tuck 

My jobs at home are to the floor and the sheets neatly 

underthe bed. 

4. lining /sole 

The homeless man’s possession was a jacket with a warm . 

5. distrust / betray 

I those girls because they their friends by telling their 

secrets. 

6. ceased / founded 

He his business after the fighting from the war . 

7. commented / civil 

The man on the news on the recent struggles of the 

people. 

8. bracelet / dent 

Fiona stepped on my and made a in it. 

9. cross / mass 

I watched the of people the bridge to see the Queen. 

10. prayed / rife 

The country was with enemies, so I that our people would 

be safe. 


125 








The Betrayal 

A king lived in a fort with his daughter, Clara. The king had founded a great empire, 
but his land was rife with enemies who wanted to take over the kingdom. Because there 
was so much civil unrest, the king told Clara not to trust anyone. 

One day, Clara was walking outside when she saw a girl sweeping the path. Clara 
crossed the garden, and they started talking. The girl’s name was Susie. Clara felt sorry 
for Susie because she was very poor, and Clara gave her a bracelet. After that, Susie and 
Clara met every day. 

Once, the King saw them talking. He told Clara, “Don’t talk to that girl. She could be 
an enemy.” 

“You can’t distrust everyone,” commented Clara. “She is my sole friend. It’s OK to be 
friendly to people.” 

The King said, “Don’t argue with me. Stay inside from now on, and talk to no one.” 

Clara felt lonely in the fort. But one day she saw Susie outside. She wrote her a note 
with a map showing a secret entrance to the fort. Clara wrote: “Come at night, and we 
can talk together. Don’t show anybody this note.” She threw the note to Susie, and Susie 
tucked it in the lining of her dress. 

That night Clara waited for Susie. But she heard something ticking, and then a loud 
blast. She ran into the hall, and it was full of smoke, which made her choke. A mass of 
soldiers were there, fighting. Clara realized that Susie had betrayed her and given the 
map to her father’s enemies. Clara prayed that everyone in the castle would be safe from 
her friend’s treachery. 

At last, the fighting ceased. Clara found her father in the hall with his soldiers. They 
had defeated their enemies, but there were dents in their armor from the heavy fighting. 
Clara told her father what she had done and promised never to disobey him again. 




KMF A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The land near the king’s fort was rife with disease. 


2. When Clara and Susie met, Clara was sweeping the path. 


3. Clara crossed the garden to talk to Susie. 


4. Clara gave Susie a bracelet. 


5. Clara commented to her father that he should distrust people. 


6. Clara choked because of the smoke. 


P£\ B‘0’ B Answer the questions. 


1. Which of the following actions did Clara do in the story? 

a. Sweep the path b. Betray her sole friend 

c. Found a clock ticking d. Pray 

2. What did Clara hear in the middle of the night? 

a. Civil fighting b. A loud blast 

c. Susie calling at the window d. Someone sweeping 


3. What did the king emphasize? 
a. Anybody could be an enemy, 
c. He distrusted his relatives. 


b. Clara should be friendly to people, 
d. His enemy’s treachery had ceased. 


4. Where were the mass of soldiers fighting? 

a. In the garden b. In the hall 

c. In the King’s bedroom d. Outside Clara’s window 









background [baekgraund] n. 

A background is a person’s education, family, and experience. 

-* The new teacher had a background in science and math. 

bait [beit] n. 

Bait is something used to trick a person or thing to do something. 
The best bait for catching fish is a big, fat worm. 

chronicle [krdnikl] v. 

To chronicle something means to record an event or speech. 

-*■ The daily newspaper chronicles local and world events. 

COpper [kapar] n. 

Copper is a red-brown metal often used in electric wire and pipes. 
-*■ Ancient hunters melted copper to make knives and spears. 

disease [dizcz] n. 

A disease is an illness that causes specific problems. 

— He had a disease that caused him to lose his hearing. 

folklore [foukloir] n . 








Folklore is the collection of beliefs and stories of a culture. 

-*■ India’s folklore has stories written in long poems about great warriors. 

infect [infekt] v. 

To infect someone means to give them an illness. 

— The common cold infects hundreds of millions of people each year. 

itch lit/] v. 

To itch means to rub the skin with your fingernails. 

— The rough fabric in his shirt made the back of his neck itch. 

literature [llteretfar] n. 

Literature is books, plays, and poetry. 

-* Early American literature covers the poetry and stories from 1500 to 1800. 

millennium [mileniam] n. 

A millennium is one thousand years. 

— Stonehenge is believed to have been built about 5 millenniums ago. 






myth [mie] n. 

A myth is a traditional story that explains a culture’s history and beliefs. 
-* In Greece, there was a myth about a woman who had snakes for hair. 

promote [pramout] v. 

To promote someone means to raise them to a higher position or rank. 

— After two years in the company, she was promoted to a manager. 

relate inieit] /. 

To relate to something means to have a connection with it. 

— A company’s plan usually relates to how much profit it can make. 

religion [rilid 3 an] n. 

A religion is a belief in a god or gods. 

— Their religion taught that people should forgive their enemies. 

sum [sAm] n. 

A sum is a specific amount of money. 

-♦ He calculated the numbers to see what the sum of his bills would be. 

teller [telax] n. 

A teller is a person who works with a bank’s customers. 

The teller at the bank helped Kelly put money into a savings account. 

trustworthy [trAstwardi] adj. 

If someone is trustworthy, they are honest and truthful. 

-» Mary is one of the most trustworthy people I’ve ever met. 

update [Apdeit] v. 

To update something means to make it more modern. 

-* We need to update the programs on our computers. 

Vein [vein] n. 

A vein is a tube in the body that carries blood toward the heart. 

-» The blue veins in my hand are just under my skin. 

venom [venam] n. 

Venom is a poisonous substance that comes from animals or plants. 

-► A snake’s venom can be used to cure the illnesses it creates. 



Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. The reward for finding the lost dog was a very large specific amount . 


2. When his arm got crushed, it damaged a tube that carries blood to the heart was damaged. 


3. To which chart does this collection of data have a connetion with? 


4. This book records the first years of the king’s life. 


5. Since that pot is made out of a red -brown m etal , it gets hot very quickly. 


6. The nation had a party because their country had existed for a thousand years . 


7. Her experience made herthe best person forthe new job. 


8 . The poisonous substance from that fish will make you very sick. 


9. I wouldn’t believe him. He’s not very honest . 


10. The owners of the hotel decided to modernize the computer system. 


e 


Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. What do you need if you want to catch a fish? 

a. Copper b. Venom c. Bait d. Disease 

2. Which of the following means to be raised to a higher position? 

a. Chronicle b. Update c. Infect d. Promote 

3. Which would most likely be found in a library? 

a. Literature b. Atelier c. A vein d. Regligion 

4. Sometimes, uncomfortable clothes will make you do this? 

a. Itch b. Trustworthy c. Relate d. Background 

5. Which of the following best describes the combination of two numbers? 

a. A sum b. A millennium c. Folklore d. A myth 





PHVf A Match the phrases to make complete sentences. 

1. The bank teller . 

2. Many religions . 

3. The nation’s folklore . 

4. The factory’s new worker had a background . 

5. Those veins pump blood . 

6. The snake’s poisonous venom . 

7. The newspaper story chronicled the action . 

8. One of that culture’s myths explains that the ocean . 

9. The total sum for staying three nights at the hotel ! 

10. Her arm started to itch . 


a. caused the boy to collapse b. 
c. was once a small pond d. 

e. in engineering f. 

g. from all of the insect bites h. 

i. believe that there is a god j. 


to all necessary places in the body 
was over $300 

deposited Paul’s money into his account 
of the heroic crime-fighter 
is rich with tradition 


PAR'u' B Match the clauses to make complete sentences. 

1. If you don’t stay away from school today, . 

2. Because the calendar didn’t list the new holidays, . 

3. The hunters put some food in the trap, . 

4. She learned to speak the country’s language, . 

5. The police thought the two crimes might be connected, . 

6. The pipes were safe for carrying water . 

7. He had done great work for the company for three years, . 

8. She never shared her friends’ secrets with anyone, . 

9. If you think a lot can happen in a hundred years, . 

10. He had a bad cough and a headache, . 


a. because they were made from copper 
c. so everyone knew she was trustworthy 
e. then you might infect the other students 
g. so he thought he’d caught a disease 


b. but no animals wanted the bait 
d. it had to be updated 
f. so she could read their literature 
h. so his boss promoted him 


but it turned out that they didn’t relate to each other 
then imagine how much might happen in a millennium 





The Teller and the Thieves 

A teller at a bank suspected some of her fellow employees of not being very trustworthy. 
She thought they were stealing. In order to catch them, though, she needed some way to 
linkthem to the crime. 

She had a background in religion and folklore. She remembered that one religion’s 
literature had a myth that chronicled how a group of thieves was captured. 

In the millennium-old story, coins of copper were covered with venom taken from a 
poisonous snake. The coins were left as bait for the robbers. When they touched the coins, 
the venom infected their bodies through their skin. The venom ran through their veins, 
and they all became very sick as if they had a disease. It made their skin purple. The police 
arrested whoever had purple skin. 

She knew she couldn’t use venom because it might 
hurt someone. However, she thought of a way to update 
the old story. She decided to cover a sum of money with 
a special powder. If people touched the money, the 
powder would cause their skin to itch. She placed the 
stack of money in the bank’s safe. No one was supposed 
to take money from the safe. If somebody did, then they | 
had to be stealing. 

Within a few hours, three of her coworkers were 
scratching their hands and arms. They itched so badly 
that they couldn’t even work. She checked the money, 
and it was gone. She told her boss what she had done, 
and he had the thieves arrested. He thanked her and 
promoted her. 

Because events from 
history often repeat, 
ancient 
literature 
had 
helped 
; teller solve 

a crime. She proved that 

stories from the past still relate with the problems of 
today, and they can be helpful in solving problems. 





PZMT A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. A teller at a bank thought her fellow employees were trustworthy. 


2. The teller remembered a myth that chronicled howto capture the thieves. 


3. The venom was taken from a poisonous plant. 


4. The robbers became sick as if they had a disease. 


5. Two of her coworkers were scratching their hands and arms. 


6. The teller’s boss promoted her. 


PZ'MT B Answer the questions. 

1. Which word does NOT describe the teller’s background? 

a. Religion b. Literature 

c. Folklore d. Vein 

2. In the millennium-old story, the police linked the robbers to the crime because 

a. they were purple b. their skin itched 

c. they weren’t working d. they were at the bank 

3. What did the teller use as bait to catch her fellow employees? 

a. Coins of copper b. A special powder 

c. A sum of money d. The bank’s safe 

4. Why did the teller decide not to use venom in hertrap? 

a. It wasn’t related. b. It infected her. 

c. It was updated. d. It might hurt someone. 


133 




charity [tfaereti] n. 

Charity is an act of giving help, usually money, to those who need it. 

-+ Thanks to his friends’ charity, he had enough money to pay the rent. 



commerce [kamars] n. 

Commerce is the activity of buying and selling things. 

-*■ The newshopping mall increased the commerce in that section of town. 



condemn [kandem] v. 

To condemn someone means to give them a specific punishment. 

— The judge condemned the criminal to five years in prison. 

cozy [kouzi] adj\ 

If something is cozy, then it is comfortable, warm, and relaxing. 

— The thick blanket made the bed very cozy. 





deplete [dipict] * 

To deplete an amount of something means to use up all of it. 

— All the driving he was doing was depleting his car’s fuel supply. 


I 



economy [ikanami] n. 

An economy is the money and businesses of a country or region. 

— The factory was good for the economy because it brought jobs to the area. 



empire [empaiar] n. 

An empire is a large group of countries ruled by an emperor or empress. 

-* The emperor built roads to make travel easier throughout the empire. 

gOOdS [gudz] n. 

Goods are anything that can be bought or sold. 

-» Shoes, hats, dresses and purses were the goods she wanted to buy. 

heed [hud] v. 

To heed something means to obey or follow it. 

-* You should heed the advice on the sign and not drive so fast. 

hitchhike [hftjhaik] v. 

To hitchhike means to travel by asking for rides from passing vehicles. 

— She didn’t have a car, so she hitchhiked several miles to her brother’s home. 


mock [mak] v. 

To mock someone means to tease them in a cruel way. 

The girls mocked Nancy because she was a new student. 

neutral [ryu:trel] adj. 

If someone is neutral, then they do not help either of the two fighting sides. 
-♦ The girl’s friend remained neutral while the couple was arguing. 

persecute [pe:rsikjii:t] v. 

To persecute means to treat someone badly. 

-» Dan felt persecuted because he was smaller than the other boys at school. 

pity [piti] n. 

Pity is the feeling of sadness and kindness forthose who are suffering. 

— Because she had pity for the lost boy, she helped him find his parents. 

reduce [rld/u:s] /. 

To reduce something means to make it less in size or number. 

— When the store reduced its prices, people wanted to shop there. 

scribe [skraib] n. 

A scribe was a person whose job was to copy written works. 

-♦ In Ancient Egypt, scribes recorded important events. 

temper [temper] n. 

A temper is someone’s mood or a chance that they might get angry. 

-* She has a temper. Even the slightest mistakes make her angry. 

throne [eroun] n. 

A throne is the special chair in which a ruler sits. 

— Nobody except the king and queen sat in the thrones in the great hall. 

unity [ju:neti] n. 

Unity is the state of people working together for a certain purpose. 

— The project was finished early, thanks to the unity of the workers. 

Victor [vikter] n. 

A victor is a group or person that wins in a contest. 

— At the end of the game, the blue team was the victor. 


135 




Choose the word that is the better fit for each blank. 

1. mocking / temper 

The other children were him about how funny his new shoes looked, 

and it didn’t take long for him to develop a bad . 

2. scribes / unity 

The realized that they could copy more books if they stopped arguing 

and worked in . 

3. cozy / hitchhiked 

The young man in the cold without getting a ride for such a long time. 

When a car finally picked him up, the soft seat and warm air was very , 

t\. charity / goods 

The they received was not only money but also several, 

such as food and clothing. 

5. heeded / neutral 

The senators the warning from the countries’ leaders and decided to 

stay in the war. 

6. commerce / empire 

The ancient that we studied in class today was very important because 

it spread and trade throughout the world. 

7. throne / victor 

The king’s two sons had to fight to see who would become the next king. Whoever 
was the would get to sit upon his father’s . 

8. pity / reduced 

The cold and dirt had the poor man’s clothing to almost nothing, and 

the mayor felt for him and took him home to his house. 

9. economy / persecuted 

The businessmen the students because they didn’t agree with his 

opinions concerning the . 

10. condemned / depleted 

The men had the small lake of all its fish and were to 

going without fish for many years. 





Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. Appliances are things that are bought that usually last for many years. 

2. After making five cakes, all the sugar in the house was used up. 

3. During the holidays, offering fi nancia l help to others is very common. 

4. Because my views were different, I was treate d badly by my classmates. 

5. The group th at wins this game will have to play the very best team. 

6. When his car ran out of gas, he traveled by asking for rides to the gas station. 

7. Though it might seem like fun at the time, it’s not nice to tease in a cruel wav people. 

8. The warm weather les sen ed the snow that covered the ground. 

9. The state of working tog ether the groups showed helped them to solve their problems. 

10. The many countries ruled by o ne person was beginning to slowly fall apart. 


Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. Who is someone who would NOT sit on a throne? 

a. A king b. A queen c. A chef d. An empei 

2. All of the following describe something that’s cozy EXCEPT . 

a. relaxing b. large c. comfortable d. warm 

3. What is something that you might heed? 

a. Food b. Money c. Fun d. Advice 

4. If someone can’t control their temper, then they are likely to easily become 

a. upset b. proud c. happy d. sleepy 

5. Which of the following is something a scribe would use? 

a. Goods b. An oven c. A pen d. Nails 



137 






The Scribe’s Warning 

A great and powerful empire needed the wood from its western areas to build palaces 
and homes forthe emperor and his friends. However, the empire had depleted many of the 
forests. The trees were important to the western areas’ economy. With no trees to sell, the 
commerce in that area was reduced. Citizens could no longer purchase the goods that they 
needed to survive. Their life became difficult. 

A poor scribe from the area wanted to help. He hitchhiked to the capital to ask the 
emperor for charity. He was invited to the palace. It was large and cozy. Tables were loaded 
with food, and fires burned warmly in every fireplace. 

The emperor sat up upon his throne, and the scribe stood in front of him. 

“I’ve come to ask for help,” the scribe said. “We’re all very poor and hungry. You’ve 
used up all of the forests, and now we have nothing to sell.” 

Then he added a warning. “If we don’t receive help, I’m 
afraid that the entire empire will suffer. We must 
establish some unity.” 

Upon hearing the scribe’s request, the 
emperor’s bad temper surfaced. He mocked 
the scribe. “You think I should help,” he said 
and laughed. “You should just be happy 
to belong to this great empire. You will get 
nothing from me.” 

The emperor felt no pity forthe citizens 
of the western area. They were condemned 
to starve. The scribe returned home with 
nothing. 

Not long after, an enemy invaded the 
empire from the west. They were marching 
to the capital. Because the citizens felt 
persecuted by the emperor, they remained 
neutral. They didn’t fight the invaders but 
allowed them to march freely to the capital. 

The emperor was defeated. If he had 
heeded the words of the scribe, then the 
citizens might have been the victors. But 
because he had treated them badly, they 
treated him badly in return. 


J 





MR? A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Much of the forest had been depleted by the empire. 


2. The sheep were important to the western areas’ economy. 


3. The scribe hitchhiked to the capital to ask the emperor for charity. 


4. The scribe sat upon his throne, and the emperor stood in front of him. 


5. The emperor condemned the citizens of the western areas to hard work. 


6. If the emperor had heeded the scribe’s warning, the citizens might have been 

the victors. 


MR? B Answer the questions. 

1. Why were the citizens hungry? 

a. Commerce was high. b. They couldn’t buy goods, 

c. Prices were reduced. d. They were too cozy. 

2. The emperor’s palace was all of the following EXCEPT . 

a. large and cozy b. made with wood 

c. cold and dark d. in the capital 

3. When the emperor heard the scribe’s request, how did he behave? 

a. He felt pity. b. He asked for unity. 

c. He remained neutral. d. He showed his temper. 

4. At the end of the story, what happened to the emperor? 

a. He was defeated. b. He changed his evil ways, 

c. He became rich. d. He got married 





Word List 


/ 


1 - 


I 







o o 




accurate [aekjsrit] adj. 

If something is accurate, it is completely correct. 

-» The story in the newspaper wasn’t very accurate. 

analyze [aenalaiz] v. 

To analyze something is to study it. 

-* The scientist will analyze the blood sample. 

asteroid [aestaroid] n. 

An asteroid is a giant rock from outer space. 

-* In 1908, a giant asteroid hit Siberia. 

controversy [kantravaxsi] n. 

A controversy is a dispute about something that affects many people. 

-* There has been a lot of controversy over the judge’s decision. 

evolve [ivalv] v. 

To evolve is to change over time. 

-♦ Many people think that humans evolved from animals. 

factor [feektar] n. 

A factor is something that has an effect on the way another thing happens. 
— Smoking is the main factor that causes lung cancer. 

genetic [dsinetik] adj. 

If something is genetic, it is related to the genes in one’s body. 

-» The color of one’s eyes is genetic. 

genome [d3i:noum] n. 

A genome is the collection of all the genes in a living thing. 

-» Understanding the human genome may help cure many diseases. 

identical [aidentiksl] adj. 

To be identical is to be the same as someone or something else. 

-* James and John are identical twins. 

intellectual [intalektjual] n. 

An intellectual is a very smart person. 

— ' We’ve always considered my Uncle Max the intellectual of the family. 


140 









majority [mad 36 (:)rati] n. 

A majority of something is almost all of the people or things in that group. 

— A majority of the people voted for Tom Smith in the election. 

mammal [maamal] n. 

A mammal is an animal that usually has hair and is not born from an egg. 
-* Even though it lives in the water, whales are actually mammals. 

multiply [mAltsplai] V. 

To multiply is to increase in number. 

— In the past year, the number of people at work multiplied by ten percent. 

offspring [5:fsprin] n. 

Offspring are the children of a person or the babies of an animal. 

-* The dog’s offspring had the same color of fur as she did. 

pCSticidG [pestasaid] n. 

A pesticide is a substance used to kill insects. 

— The farmer sprayed his crops with a pesticide to keep bugs away. 

regulate [regjaleit] v. 

To regulate something is to control how it happens. 

-» The bank regulates how much money people can borrow from it. 

reinforce [ri:inf 6 :rs] V. 

To reinforce something is to make it stronger. 

Peter reinforced his opinion with information from a book. 

stricken [striksn] adj. 

If one is stricken by a disease or problem, they are badly affected by it. 

-* Mike was stricken with a horrible illness. 

Vast [vast] adj. 

If something is vast, it is very large. 

— The wealthy man bought a vast amount of land in the countryside. 

vegetarian [vedsatesrian] n. 

A vegetarian is someone who does not eat any meat products. 

— I became a vegetarian because I don’t like the taste of meat. 


141 



Choose the answer that best fits the question. 


1. 

A professor at a university is probably 

. 


a. a majority 

b. an intellectual 


c. a controversy 

d. a factor 

2. 

If every member of a family has a disease, the disease is 


a. accurate 

b. identical 


c. vast 

d. genetic 

3. 

What would a farmer do if bugs were eating his plants? 


a. Use a pesticide 

b. Find a mammal 


c. Raise offspring 

d. Become a vegetarian 

4. 

What is something that scientists do? 



a. Analyze chemicals 

b. Multiply books 


c. Reinforce messages 

d. Regulate businesses 

5. 

Which word is related to the term “outer space”? 


a. Stricken 

b. Evolve 


c. Genome 

d. Asteroid 

6. 

What happens when something evolves? 


a. It studies more. 

b. It disagrees. 


c. It changes. 

d. It gets stronger. 

7. 

Which of these is a mammal? 



a. A chicken 

b. A snake 


c. A spider 

d. A monkey 

8. 

What would a vegetarian eat? 



a. Steak 

b. Sausage 


c. Chicken 

d. Corn 

9. 

If something is accurate, it is 



a. long 

b. false 


c. correct 

d. mysterious 

10. 

Which of these is usually considered vast? 


a. The sky 

b. A bedroom 


c. A pool 

d. The newspaper 



PAHu 1 A Match the phrases to make complete sentences. 

1. The cheaper blouse is nearly identical . 

2. The zoo is full of mammals . 

3. The computer has evolved from . 

4. My teacher said that asteroids . 

5. Many pesticides that are used on . 

6. The woman reinforced her statement . 

7. The doctor analyzes the daily report . 

8. The vast space of the room was . 

9. My report on animal genomes . 

10. The accident left her stricken . 


a. will be printed in a science textbook 
c. with two broken legs and an injured arm 
e. with an example from a scientific study 
g. to the one I found in that expensive store 

i. big enough to fit at least 5,000 people 


b. about each patient 
d. that come from all over the world 
f. a big machine to a tiny one 
h. are made of rock, ice and metal 
j. crops cause illnesses in humans 


P AE‘0’ B Match the clauses to make complete sentences. 

1. A small group of kids wanted pizza, . 

2. I don’t read gossip magazines . 

3. The people in this department can’t be trusted, . 

4. There are many things to consider about the car, . 

5. The sisters both had the strange disease, . 

6. James thought he made the right choice, . 

7. Pam served steak and potatoes to Ben, . 

8. Alice is a short woman, . 

9. I thought it would take weeks for them to grow, . 

10. Daniel loves sports and parties, . 


a. but the flowers multiplied fast b. 

c. so dad thought it was genetic d. 

e. since the news isn’t accurate f. 
g. but her offspring are very tall h. 

i. but it caused a lot of controversy j. 


but the majority wanted hamburgers 
but she didn’t know he was a vegetarian 
but the most important factor is its price 
but his brother is more of an intellectual 
so we must regulate their actions 







How the Dinosaurs Really Died 

Many scientists and intellectuals think that dinosaurs 
died when an asteroid smashed into the Earth millions 
of years ago. However, recently, there has been some 
controversy over this theory. Some scientists think 
that it isn’t accurate. They think that a tiny insect may 
have been the biggest factor in the death of these 
huge creatures. That insect was the mosquito. 

These scientists do think that an asteroid hit the Earth in 
the time of the dinosaurs. But that wasn’t what killed all of them. 

At that time, insects, including the mosquito, were beginning to evolve. Today, we can 
regulate the number of mosquitoes with pesticides. But that was impossible millions 
of years ago. The mosquitoes multiplied quickly. And they were certainly not idle. Since 
there were so many mosquitoes, it was easy for them to bite many of the dinosaurs. 
When they bit another living thing, the mosquitoes passed along a deadly disease. So the 
dinosaurs were stricken with the disease. A vast majority of them, from the vegetarians to 
the meat eaters, died. 

To reinforce this idea, scientists stress how gradually the dinosaurs died. If an asteroid 
killed them, they would have died very quickly. But the number of dinosaurs decreased 
slowly. In addition, scientists have found genetic material of mosquitoes in fossils. This 
material proves that mosquitoes existed back then. Although there may have been other 
factors, the dinosaurs died mainly because of disease, the scientists say. 

No matter how it happened, the dinosaurs’ death had a major impact on other living 
things. Many dinosaurs ate mammals. Afterthe dinosaurs died, mammals were able to 
evolve and produce offspring. Birds also evolved. Scientists have analyzed the genomes of 

birds, and they discovered 
that birds have identical 
genetic material to some 
dinosaurs. So there may 
still be dinosaurs among 
us after all. 



PjCMU'D’ A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Some scientists think the asteroid theory isn’t accurate. 


2. A huge creature may have been the biggest factor in the death of these tiny insects. 


3. Today, we can regulate the number of mosquitoes with pesticides. 


4. A vast majority of mosquitoes, from the vegetarians to the meat eaters, died. 


5. In addition, scientists have found the genetic material of mammals in fossils. 


6. Many dinosaurs ate mammals. 


P. UiiTf B Answer the questions. 

1. What might have been the biggest factor in the dinosaurs’ death? 

a. Their genetic material b. An asteroid 

c. Other animals d. Mosquitoes 

2. What do we do to regulate the number of mosquitoes? 

a. We use pesticides. b. We feed them to vegetarians, 

c. We kill their offspring. d. We analyze their genomes. 

3. How did the mosquitoes spread the deadly disease? 

a. They produced offspring. b. They bit many dinosaurs, 

c. They ate birds. d. They multiplied quickly. 

4. What proves that mosquitoes were around at the same time as dinosaurs? 

a. Genetic material in fossils b. Similar modern insects 

c. Fossils of dinosaurs d. Other disease-stricken animals 


145 




COmpaSSion [kampaajan] n. 

Compassion is a feeling of understanding for someone who is hurt or suffering. 
The veterinarian had compassion for the sick little puppy. 

COnSCnt [kansent] n. 

Consent is permission to do something. 

-*• Their mother gave the children consent to go outside and play. 

COre [ko:r] n. 

The core is the center of something. 

-» The rings of a tree start forming at its core. 

cunning [kAnini adj. 

If someone is cunning, they are good at tricking people. 

— ' The cunning child fooled his parents into thinking that he was kind. 

dizzy [dizl]] adj. 

If someone is dizzy, then they feel off balance as if they will fall down. 

-» The pregnant woman was dizzy after standing up too quickly. 

equilibrium [i:kwalibriam] n. 



Equilibrium is the balance between different forces. 

— The sudden drop in prices upset the equilibrium of the economy. 

foster [fo(:)star] v. 

To foster a feeling or a skill means to help it develop. 

— She helped foster a sense of calm in the little boy. 

grind [graind] v. 

To grind something means to break it into very small pieces or powder. 

— She wanted to grind the beans, so she could brew some coffee. 

growl [graul] v. 

To growl means to make a deep, angry sound. 

* The dog started to growl at the man walking by. 







moderation [madareijan] n. 

Moderation is a state of being just enough but not too much. 

It is important to eat in moderation so that you can have a healthy body. 

predator [predeter] n. 

A predator is an animal that kills and eats other animals. 

The peregrine falcon is a predator that eats fish. 

Sane [sein] adj. 

If someone is sane, they can think in a normal way. 

— Oliver does not act like a sane person when he is angry. 

SaUCer [so.ser] n. 

A saucer is a small round dish that you set a cup on. 

— He placed the spoon on the saucer. 

snatch [sneetj] v. 

To snatch something means to take it away with a quick motion. 

-» He was so hungry that he snatched an apple from a tree. 

stagger [staeger] v. 

To stagger means to move in an unsteady way and almost fall over. 

He staggered around after having too much to drink. 

stumble [stAmtoi] v . 

To stumble means to put your foot down wrong so that you almost fall. 

-» He stumbled as he ran through the puddle. 

tense [tens] adj. 

If someone is tense, they are worried something bad might happen. 

-* After the phone call, Monica was very tense. 

tumble [tAmbsl] K 

To tumble means to fall, often in a rolling way. 

-► He lost his balance while snowboarding and tumbled to the ground. 

withhold [widhould] v. 

To withhold something is to not give it to someone. 

-» They withheld all information until she paid her fine. 




147 



PftEu’ A Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. Which of the following means to make a noise? 

a. Grasp b. Plush 

c. Growl d. Stagger 

2. Which of the following eats other animals? 

a. Core b. Predator 

c. Cunning d. Saucer 


3. What is a balance between two things? 

a. Equilibrium b. Foster 

c. Compassion d. Sane 

4. Which of the following means not too much? 

a. Dizzy b. Withhold 

c. Tense d. Moderation 

5. What word means the same as agreement? 

a. Cherish b. Stumble 

c. Snatch d. Consent 


P/^EO 1 B Choose the right definition for the given word. 


1. withhold 

a. to think normally 
c. to not give 

2. snatch 

a. to leave 
c. to give 

3. cherish 

a. to break into pieces 
c. to agree with 

4. stagger 

a. to turn off 

c. to take something away 


b. to be together 
d. to express happiness 


b. to throw 
d. to take 


b. to love something important 
d. to give something away 

b. to run into someone 
d. to trip and almost fall 


5. saucer 

a. a small dish b. to stop being angry 

c. helping someone d. to go against 


Choose the word that is the better fit for each blank. 

1. cherish / moderation 

I going to the movies, but in because it can be expensive. 

2. growl / predator 

The lion began to , and the deer knew there was a to be 

afraid of. 

3. compassion / sane 

The man was , so he felt forthe starving child in need. 

4. saucer / snatch 

The boy moved to the cup from his sister and knocked overthe 


5. core / foster 

Deep in the of the tree, there are minerals that new 

growth. 

6. cunning / grind 

The criminal started to up the gemstone so no one would 

know it was the same stone. 

7. dizzy / tumbled 

After he down the hill, he felt . 

8. consent / withhold 

The woman decided to her permission and did not give to 

her daughter’s request. 

9. stumble / tense 

The man felt after his horse started to because he 

thought that the horse might fall. 

10. equilibrium / stagger 

I felt like I had no . As a result, I started to as I walked. 




The Traveler and the Innkeeper 

A traveler stopped at an inn. He sat and watched people closely, like a predator. He 
heard the old innkeeper talking to a young man in the core of the inn. 

“I just need to borrow some money. I swear that I’ll spend it in moderation, and my 
friend will pay you back tomorrow,” the man said. The innkeeper gave his consent and 
pulled out some money. 

The traveler knew that this was a trick. The man was going 
to leave with the poor innkeeper’s money and never return. 

He felt compassion for the nice innkeeper and did not want 
him to be tricked. The cunning traveler decided to teach the 
innkeeper a lesson. 

The traveler walked over to the innkeeper and sat down. 

The innkeeper had started to grind coffee beans to make 
coffee. He made the coffee and handed the traveler a 
saucer and a cup. The two started talking. After a while the 
traveleryawned and then growled like a wolf. 

“Are you not sane? I thought I just heard you growl,” 
said the innkeeper. 

“I did. I am cursed. Every time I yawn three times in a row, 

I turn into a wolf and attack people.” 

The innkeeper became tense. Then the traveleryawned again. As the 
traveler started to yawn a third time, the innkeeper turned to run outside. As he 
ran, the traveler snatched his coat. The scared innkeeper staggered outside and tumbled 
into the street. 

The traveler followed him out because he did not want to withhold the truth any longer. 
He just wanted to foster happiness and restore the innkeeper’s emotional equilibrium. 
The innkeeper was dizzy, and he stumbled. The traveler helped him stand up. 

“That was a trick,” the traveler said as he 
returned the coat. 

“Oh, good. I cherish this coat,” responded 
the innkeeper. 

“Well, hopefully this will teach you that 
you shouldn’t believe every story that you 
hear.” 





w 



2. The traveler staggered outside. 


3. The innkeeper became tense after the traveler told him why he growled. 


4. The traveler felt compassion for the innkeeper. 


5. The traveler wanted to withhold the truth and foster anger. 


6. The innkeeper said that he cherished his coat. 


\P5M T B Answer the questions. 

1. What did the traveler want to foster inside the innkeeper? 

a. health b. strength 

c. despair d. happiness 


2. The traveler snatched the coat, 
a. to make the innkeeper sane 
c. to be a predator 


b. to teach the innkeeper a lesson 
d. to sell it and make money 


3. Why did the innkeeper consent to give the young man money? 

a. The young man was scary. b. The young man was cunning. 

c. The young man was dizzy. d. The young man’s friend would repay him. 


4. Why did the innkeeper hand the traveler a saucer and a cup? 

a. So he could drink coffee b. So he could restore equilibrium 

c. So he could grind coffee beans d. So he could steal his coat 



151 





Mi 



Word List 


w.'m> 






: : 






aircraft [corkcseft] n. 

An aircraft is a vehicle that flies in the sky, such as an airplane or helicopter. 
-* At the museum in the airport, you can see a lot of old aircraft. 

celebrity [salebrati] n. 

A celebrity is someone who is famous. 

— It was the highlight of the evening when the celebrities arrived. 

concrete [kdnkri:t] n. 

Concrete is a substance made from stones. 

— The man covered the ground with concrete. 

decisive [disaisiv] adj. 

If someone is decisive, they make decisions quickly. 

-* Our boss is very decisive, so it did not take long to organize the project. 

esteemed [isthmd] ad y. 

If someone is esteemed, many people like or respect them. 

— An esteemed scientist is coming to the university to talk about her discoveries. 

ethical [eeikal] adj. 

If something is ethical, it is the right thing to do. 

-* Many people believe that it is ethical to help others in need. 

extinct [ikstinkt] adj. 

If plants or animals are extinct, there are none left. 

-» There used to be dinosaurs all over the world, but now they are extinct. 

hardy [hd:rdi] adj. 

If a person or plant is hardy, it is strong and can live though difficult conditions. 
-+ The farmer is a hardy man and doesn’t mind working outside. 

institute [instant] n. 

An institute is an organization that is interested in research or teaching. 

-» / am going to a lecture about ancient Rome at the Historical Institute. 

jealousy [d3elasi] n. 

Jealousy is a feeling of wanting something that somebody else has. 

-* She felt a lot of jealousy when she saw Luke with two girls. 




152 





migrate [maigreit] v. 

To migrate means to move from one place to another. 

-> Many birds migrate to warmer countries in the winter. 

nurture [nartjar] v. 

To nurture something means to care for it as it grows or develops. 

— Robert nurtured his plants, and that is why they grow so well. 

overhead [ouva/tied] adv. 

If something is overhead, it is located above you. 

-*• /As we sat on top of the hill, a plane flew overhead. 

principle [prinsapal] n. 

A principle is a belief about the correct way to behave. 

— To maintain principles, it’s vital to watch, listen, and speak carefully. 

rural [rusrsl] adj. 

If a place is rural, it is in the countryside instead of the city. 

-* / want to live in a small house in a rural area. 

secluded [siklu:did] adj. 

If a place is secluded, it is far away from any other place. 

-* There was a secluded bench in the park. 

SpecieS [spi:Ji(:)z] n. 

A species is a type of plant or animal. 

— There are 21 different species of butterfly in this forest. 

SWamp [swamp] n. 

A swamp is a very wet area of land. 

— There are lots of wild animals living in the swamp. 

traverse [trsevsT-s] v. 

To traverse means to move or travel through an area. 

— The explorer traversed the desert alone on a camel. 

zoology [zoual9d3i] n. 

Zoology is a subject in which people study animals. 

— Helen wants to study zoology because she has always liked animals. 



\MMti A Choose the right word for the given definition. 


1. 

being the right thing to do 
a. jealousy b. migrate 

c. ethical 

d. 

secluded 

2. 

a wet area of land 

a. swamp b. institute 

c. celebrity 

d. 

species 

3. 

able to make decisions quickly 
a. hardy b. rural 

c. extinct 

d. 

decisive 

4. 

respected by many people 
a. nurture b. traverse 

c. esteemed 

d. 

overhead 

5. 

a rule of behavior 
a. zoology b. aircraft 

c. concrete 

d. 

principle 


PART? B Choose the right definition for the given word. 


1. 

nurture 






a. to travel 

b. respected 

c. 

to care for 

d. to die 

2. 

secluded 






a. respected 

b. correct 

c. 

alone 

d. to make decisions 

3. 

species 






a. stones 

b. an animal 

c. 

wet land 

d. a place to study 

4. 

jealousy 






a. knowing right and wrong 

b. 

the act of wanting another person’s things 


c. famous 


d. 

studying animals 


5. 

overhead 






a. moving 

b. above 

c. 

able to fly 

d. able to cope 


e 


Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. How come we cannot see dinosaurs today? 

a. They are celebrities. b. They are extinct. 

c. It isn’t ethical. d. They have all traversed the desert. 

2. What should I do if I want to learn about animals? 

a. Go to a swamp b. Study zoology c. Nurture babies d. Be decisive 

3. Which of these does NOT describe the countryside? 

a. It is very rural. b. There are not a lot of buildings, 

c. Birds often fly overhead. d. There is a lot of concrete. 

4. If you want to camp in the mountains, you need to . 

a. have principles b. be hardy c. feel jealousy d. travel in an aircraft 

5. Brids to warmer parts of the country during the winter. 

a. esteem b. insitute c. species d. migrate 





Jzilj a 11 


Choose the word that is the better fit for each blank. 

1. hardy / traverse 

You need to be if you want to the mountains. 

2. institute / celebrity 

A(n) is going to give a talk at the of Drama. 

3. aircraft / migrate 

Many people by ship or . 

4. esteemed / jealousy 

She felt a lot of because her sister was highly . 

5. swamp / extinct 

They found the remains of animals in the . 

6. secluded / species 

You can see many different bird in this location. 

7. ethical / decisive 

He made a quick, choice, but he was worried if it was the 

thing to fire him over the holidays. 

8. zoology / nurture 

He chose to study because he has always liked to 

animals. 

9. overhead / rural 

I like to be in areas where there are no planes flying 

10. concrete / principle 

I don’t like the of covering the garden in . 


155 



au 


Gilbert and the Lizard 

Eliza disliked Australia. Firstly, she’d had to spend twenty uncomfortable hours on 
an aircraft getting here. She wanted to go to the beach, but her husband was a zoology 
professor and wanted to look for some interesting animals. So now she was traversing a 
swamp in the midday heat. 

“Let me sit down, Gilbert. I’m not hardy like you,” she said, eventually. 

They sat under a tree. There were lots of birds in that secluded, rural place, and they 
watched them flying overhead. 

Then suddenly Gilbert saw something on a rock. 

“That’s strange,” said Gilbert. “That looks like a Red 
Swamp Lizard, but I thought that species was extinct.” He 
carefully picked it up. “Yes, it is! I’m going to take it back to 
the Zoology Institute. They will be filled with so much 
jealousy when they see what I have found!” 

“Are you sure we should take it from its home?” 
asked Eliza. 

“Nonsense, many animals migrate. They’re used to changes,” said Gilbert. 

“Hmm, I don’t agree with the principle of it,” said Eliza. “It isn’t ethical.” But Gilbert 
was decisive and took the lizard back to the hotel in the city. He thought that this find 
would make him a highly esteemed celebrity at the Zoology Institute. 

For the next few days, Gilbert fed and nurtured the lizard. But the lizard wasn’t happy. 
It lost its beautiful red color and began to look ordinary. In fact, Gilbert started to wonder 
whether it was special at all. He went outside and found a common lizard on a piece of 
concrete. When he compared them, they looked exactly alike. The lizard was only red in 
the swamp! 

Gilbert said to Eliza, “I’m going to return this lizard to the swamp. I’ve learned an 
important lesson. Home is where we are happiest. At home, we are special like the red 
lizard. We can never be so happy when we are away.” 

“Good,” said Eliza. “So, can we go home now?” 


* 


/Jr. 


A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The journey on the aircraft to Australia took thirty hours. 


2. Eliza was a professor of zoology. 


3. Eliza was hardier than Gilbert. 


4. The swamp was in a rural, secluded area. 


5. Gilbert thought that the red lizard was an extinct species. 


6. Gilbert nurtured the red lizard at the hotel. 


B Answer the questions. 


1. What did Gilbert and Eliza see flying overhead? 

a. An aircraft b. Birds 

c. An extinct species d. Butterflies 

2. How was Gilbert described after he found the lizard? 

a. Full of jealousy b. Highly esteemed 

c. Decisive d. Full of principles 

3. What did Gilbert thinkthatthe find would make him feel like? 

a. A celebrity b. Decisive 

c. Ethical d. Hardy 

4. Where did Gilbert want to take the red lizard? 

a. To the Zoology Institute b. To the university 

c. To a different swamp d. To his home 


assumption [asAmpJen] n. 

An assumption is something that you believe is true but cannot prove. 

-> / went to the cafeteria on the assumption that everyone would be there. 

barley [M*ia n. 

Barley is a grain that is used for animal feed, health food and beer. 

— The farmer grew barley to feed his cows in the winter. 

beast [bi:st] n. 

A beast is a large, dangerous animal. 

— A lion is one of the fiercest beasts on Earth. 

Colonel [ksrnal] n. 

A colonel is a military officer. 

-* lames has been given a promotion in the army. He is now a colonel. 

contagious [kanteid 3 Bs] adj. 

If a disease is contagious, it is easily carried from one person to another. 

— You must wear protective clothing because the patient’s illness is contagious. 

corpse [kojps] n. 

A corpse is a dead body of a human. 

After the accident, the corpse was taken to the hospital. 

Crisis [kraisis] n. 

A crisis is a situation that is extremely stressful or dangerous. 

-* The airport workers’ strike led to a crisis at the airport. 

Cure [kjuar] v. 

To cure means to cause an illness or injury to end or disappear. 

-► My dentist cured me of my toothache. 

deformed [dif6:/md] adj. 

If something is deformed, it is not shaped normally and may appear ugly. 
-* Even though the carrot was deformed, it was still safe to eat. 

discriminate [diskrimaneit] v. 

To discriminate means to judge people according to their looks. 

They discriminated against her because she was different. 



I 





embassy fembasi] n. 

An embassy is where government officials work in a foreign country. 

-* If you lose your passport, you should contact the embassy. 

extinguish [ikstingwi/] v. 

To extinguish a fire means to make it stop. 

-* Michael extinguished the small fire with the hose. 

flint [flint] n. 

Flint is a hard stone that people used to make weapons for hunting. 

— There are a lot of flint tools in the museum. 

harass [haraes] V. 

To harass someone means to annoy or trouble them. 

-* The children harassed their mother because they wanted her attention. 

integrate [intagreit] v. 

To integrate means to join, communicate and socialize. 

-* Governments want immigrants to integrate with the population. 

miniature [miniatjar] adj. 

If something is miniature, it is very small. 

The boy enjoys playing with his miniature train set in his bedroom. 

nutrition [ry'irtrijan] n. 

Nutrition is the process by which people use food to stay healthy. 

— It is important to pay attention to nutrition if you want to be an athlete. 

promptly [pramptll] adv. 

If something happens promptly, it happens quickly or on time. 

— Arrive promptly, or we won’t have time to discuss everything. 

technician [teknijan] n. 

A technician is a person who is skilled in electronic or mechanical work. 
-> I need to call the technician to help me with my computer. 

tropics [trapiks] n. 

The tropics are the areas of land and sea close to the equator. 

-* People like to go to the tropics for vacation because it’s warm. 




EOHO 1 A Choose the right word for the given definition. 


1. 

a dangerous animal 




a. barley 

b. 

beast 


c. an assumption 

d. 

cure 

2. 

to trouble or annoy someone 




a. extinguish 

b. 

harass 


c. discriminate 

d. 

integrate 

3. 

a dead body 




a. colonel 

b. 

flint 


c. corpse 

d. 

embassy 

4. 

very small 




a. miniature 

b. 

contagious 


c. deformed 

d. 

promptly 

5. 

a bad situation 




a. technician 

b. 

crisis 


c. nutrition 

d. 

tropics 


B Choose the right definition for the given word. 


1. assumption 

a. a grain b. 

c. a belief without proof d. 

2. integrate 

a. to be on time b. 

c. to put out a fire d. 

3. flint 

a. a dead body b. 

c. a hard stone d. 

4. nutrition 

a. trouble b. 

c. ending an illness d. 


a military officer 
a bad situation 


to become ill 
to socialize with 


an unusual shape 
a building in another country 

the process of how food is used for health 
a dangerous animal 


5. tropics 

a. areas close to the Equator 
c. scientists 


b. small things 
d. bad treatment 





A Match the phrases to make complete sentences. 

1. Barley is often . 

2. The colonel won a medal . 

3. Our new neighbors have integrated well . 

4. The corpse was examined . 

5. An employer should not discriminate . 

6. The embassy will tell you . 

7. The financial crisis . 

8. I was able to extinguish the . 

9. Flint weapons were used . 

10. A lot of miniature electronic machines . 


a. 

to determine the cause of death 

b. are manufactured in Japan 

c. 

how you can get a visa 

d. by people living ten thousand years ago 

e. 

fed to animals 

f. was caused by poor bank management 

g- 

entire fire by myself 

h. for his work in the war 

i. 

with the people in the village 

j. among people at work 


PAR 1 O’ B Match the clauses to make complete sentences. 

1. Tom left the house early . 

2. The children wanted some chocolate, . 

3. The book was very fun to read . 

4. I phoned the police, . 

5. Pam isn’t at work today . 

6. I want to cut down the tree in the garden . 

7. James studied chemistry at university, . 

8. Mike was released from the hospital . 

9. If you want to be healthy, . 

10. You may need to have some vaccinations . 

: a. if you go on vacation in the tropics b. because the doctors cured his illness 

: c. because the illness is contagious d. because all the beasts could talk 

: e. and they arrived very promptly f. because it is deformed and looks ugly 

: g. so they harassed their father until he bought some 

• h. on the assumption that the traffic would be bad 
: i. and now he works as a technician in a laboratory 

| j. you need to pay attention to your nutrition 


161 




— 



Colonel Wilbur and his wife Mary were flying over the tropics in their private plane. But 
suddenly the engine caught fire. It was impossible to extinguish the fire, so they were forced 
to land in the forest. 

“What are we going to do?” said Mary. “Can you fix the plane?” 

Wilbur said, “That’s impossible. I am not a technician, and the plane is out of gasoline. 
We’ll have to find help.” 

Wilbur and Mary walked through the forest. It was difficult to find a path through the 
trees. Mary even tore her dress on sharp thorns. Suddenly, they saw some huts and lots 
of miniature people, cooking and making weapons with flint. 

“I’ll ask them for help,” said Wilbur. 

“No! Don’t go! They are deformed!” said Mary. “They’ll harass us! They may have a 
contagious virus that will make us sick! We won’t know how to cure it. We’ll surely end 

up as corpses!” 

Wilbur tried to persuade Mary to go to the forest people, but she refused to integrate 
with them. She had the assumption that the small people were dangerous. “Let’s keep 
walking. We’re sure to find someone sooner or later.” 

For three days, the couple searched, but they found no one who could help them in 
their crisis. It was uncomfortable, and they were hungry without any source of nutrition. 
Plus, the forest was filled with dangerous beasts. Finally, Mary agreed to return to the 
forest people. 

When Wilbur and Mary arrived at the village, the forest people immediately welcomed 
them. They gave them bread made from barely to eat and a place to sleep. The next day, 
the forest people led Wilbur and Mary through the trees, and they promptly arrived at a 
small town. From there, they took a bus to the city where they found 

an embassy. 

Mary was sorry that she had not trusted the forest people 
sooner. She learned the value of not discriminating . 


against people who are different 


A' OFT 

^ 4M 




4 






The Forest People 


Reading Comprehension 


MOT A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Wilbur and Mary had to land in the forest because the engine caught fire. 


2. It was possible for the colonel to extinguish the fire on the plane. 


3. Even though the plane crashed, it still had plenty of gasoline. 


4. Mary refused to go to the people on the assumption they had a contagious virus. 


5. The couple searched for help in the forest for five days. 


6. The forest people led Wilbur and Mary through the trees, and they promptly 

arrived at a city. 


P/MS'D’ B Answer the questions. 

1. What was the bread that the forest people gave Wilbur and Mary made of? 

a. Barley b. Flint 

c. Corpses d. Beasts 

2. After the crisis in the forest, Mary learned not to . 

a. discriminate against people b. harass forest people 

c. fly a plane in the tropics d. wear dresses in the forest 


3. Where was the embassy located? 
a. In the village 
c. In the city 


b. On the coast 
d. In the town 


4. Why didn’t Mary want to integrate with the forest people? 

a. They had poor nutrition. b. They looked deformed, 

c. They were very tall. d. They were from the embassy. 




beneficial [bdnatp] adj. 

If something is beneficial, it is good foryou. 

— Drinking milk everyday is beneficial to your bones. 



birthplace [barepleis] n. 

A birthplace is a place where a person is born or where something started. 
-» China is the birthplace of chopsticks. 

capacity [kapaasati] n. 

The capacity of something is the amount of things that can be put in it. 

-» The parking lot has reached its full capacity. 

comparative [kampaerativ] adj. 

If something is comparative, it is being judged based on something else. 
The money that John has is comparative to most other adults. 



comprehensive [komprihensiv] adj. 

If something is comprehensive, it has all the details about something else. 
-> The teacher gave us a comprehensive review for the exam. 

conserve [kansayv] V. 

To conserve something is to protect it from being ruined or used completely. 
-» The group worked to conserve the beauty of Europe’s national parks. 

crucial Ekru:Jal] adj. 

If something is crucial, it is extremely important to anotherthing. 

-» Clean air is crucial to the survival of humans, plants, and animals. 

cumulative [kju imjaleitiv] adj. 

Cumulative describes an increase by adding one after another. 

-* The cumulative snowfall in the area is 50 centimeters per year. 

deposit [dipdzit] v. 

To deposit something is to put it into a place or another thing. 

-* I deposited the money into my bank account. 

distribute [distrtbjuit] v . 

To distribute something is to give it to a number of people. 

The teacher distributed crayons and markers to his students. 







equator [ikweite/ - ] n. 

The equator is an imaginary line that splits the Earth into north and south. 

— The equator crosses the northern part of South America. 

exotic [igzatik] adj. 

Exotic describes something unusual because it is from far away. 

— Rebecca tried many exotic foods on her trip to Africa. 

federal [federal] adj. 

If something is federal, it comes from the government of a country. 

-♦ Sometimes federal laws are different from state laws. 

formation [fo:rmeiJen] n. 

A formation is the way that something is made. 

-* The formation of ice happens when water freezes. 

frequency [frkkwansi] n. 

The frequency of something is the number of times that it happens. 

-» The frequency of rainstorms is very high, especially during the spring. 

objective [abdjektiv] n. 

An objective is a goal or plan that someone has. 

-* My objective this week is to finish my homework by 7:30 every night. 

oxygen [aksid3sn] n. 

Oxygen is a gas that all living things need to breathe. 

— My aunt believes that the oxygen in the country is cleaner than in the city. 

rainforest [r6inf5(:)rist] n. 

A rainforest is a forest that is in a place where it rains very often. 

— The rainforest is home to many animals. 

strategy [strsetad3i] n. 

A strategy is a plan for how to do something. 

The team came up with a strategy to win the game. 

wooded [wudid] adj. 

If an area is wooded, it is covered with trees. 

-> Jim and Ben decided to go hiking in the wooded area by the river. 






l 



A Choose the right word for the given definition. 


1. 

to give something away 
a. deposit 

b. 

distribute 


c. comprehensive 

d. 

conserve 

2. 

extremely important 
a. cumulative 

b. 

federal 


c. crucial 

d. 

wooded 

3. 

where something begins 
a. birthplace 

b. 

formation 


c. rainforest 

d. 

equator 

4. 

a person’s goal 
a. strategy 

b. 

capacity 


c. objective 

d. 

frequency 

5. 

unusual and unfamiliar 
a. oxygen 

b. 

exotic 


c. comparative 

d. 

beneficial 


[MUTT B Choose the right definition for the given word. 

l. 

strategy 




a. a plan 

b. 

a goal 


c. a line 

d. 

a forest 

2. 

beneficial 




a. filled with trees 

b. 

good for you 


c. unusual or exciting 

d. 

containing many details 

3. 

formation 




a. how something is made 

b. 

the number of things inside something 


c. where someone is born 

d. 

how often something happens 

4. 

federal 




a. made from added parts 

b. 

coming from the government 


c. very important 

d. 

based on something else 

5. 

conserve 




a. to protect 

b. 

to give 


c. to put into 

d. 

to breathe 





Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. I like going to the park because it’s covered with trees , and I feel like I’m in the mountains. 


2. Sam gave away party invitations to his friends. 


3. The letter came from a national government office. 


4. The business’s goal is to earn more money this year than it did last year. 


5. My mother grows unusual and unfamiliar flowers in her garden. 


6. He needed gas required for breathing to help him survive. 


7. This book about the history of India is fuU o f details . 


8. I’m going to visit a small town in Ecuadorthat is nearthe imaginary line . 


9. The numberof shoes that Jane and Beth have is judged based on something else . 


10. Eddie didn’t want to eat it, but he knew the broccoli would be good for his health. 


k jCdla-alj 

Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. Which word has about the same meaning as capacity? 

a. open b. expand c. reduce d. maximum amount 

2. Which of these can be cumulative? 

a. Snow b. A plate c. A radio d. Air 

3. What is something you would deposit into a closet? 

a. A television b. Jackets c. Money d. Water 

4. What is something you probably wounldn’t encounter in a rainforest? 

a. Many trees b. Monkeys c. Humid weather d. Kangaroos 

5. In which place is there a high frequency of snowfall? 

a. Antarctica b. Spain c. England d. Australia 





a Dying Forest 

Rainforests provide much of the world’s oxygen supply. But the forests’ exotic trees 
and animals are being killed to make room for farmers and roads. People have been 
trying to conserve rainforests for years. But another type of forest— the cloud forest— is 
just as beneficial to humans. Cloud forests are also in danger of disappearing, but little 
is being done to save them. 

These forests are located at the tops of mountains, generally near the equator. These 
humid, wooded mountaintops are mainly in 
African and Central and South American 
countries. They are called “cloud forests” 
because their height allows for the formation 
of clouds among the trees. 

Rainforests produce large amounts of 
oxygen. Cloud forests produce comparative 
amounts of water. The trees in these forests p 
water out of the clouds. The moisture gathers on 

the leaves. When it drips, it is deposited into streams. The streams flow into towns at the 
bottom of the mountain. Then, it’s distributed to people. The yearly cumulative rainfall in 
these areas is 173-198 centimeters. Cloud forests can pull in up to 60 percent of that. 
This water is crucial to the plants and the people in the area. It helps them survive. 

Cloud forests are also the birthplace of countless species of plants that can’t be found 
anywhere else. One small cloud forest has the capacity for as many types of plants as there 
are in all of Europe. There are so many, in fact, that scientists haven’t made a comprehensive 
list of them yet. 

These forests are being destroyed with increasing frequency. Trees are being cut down, 
and roads are being built in their place. Some people have an objective to get federal money 
to protect the forests. But they have had little success. Another strategy is to replace the 
destroyed plants. That, too, has been difficult because the plants 
are so unique. There’s plenty of work to be done, but 
saving the cloud forests is still a possibility. 




Reading Comprehension - 


A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The equator provides much of the world’s oxygen supply. 


2. People have been trying to conserve rainforests for years. 


3. Another type of forest— the cloud forest— is just as beneficial to humans as a 

rainforest. 


4. These humid, wooded mountaintops are mainly in African and European 

countries. 


5. Cloud forests are being destroyed with increasing frequency. 


6. Some people have an objective to get federal money to protect the forests. 


B Answer the questions. 

1. Where are cloud forests located? 

a. Nearthe equator b. In rainforests 

c. On farms d. In Europe 

2. How do the trees in cloud forests make water? 

a. They pull it in from clouds. b. They allow the formation of clouds, 

c. They let it gather in leaves. d. They pull it in from streams. 


3. How much water do cloud forests add to the yearly cumulative rainfall? 
a. About 188 centimeters b. More than 178 centimeters 

c. Up to 60 percent d. Less than rainforests 


4. Why do some people want federal money? 

a. To plant more trees b. To build more roads 

c. To make room for farmers d. To protect the forests 


169 





List 




avail [eveil] n. 

Avail is help. It is often used in the achievement of a goal. 

-» His studying was to no avail because he failed the test. 

expand [ikspsend] v. 

To expand is to become bigger in size. 

— A balloon will expand as you blow air into it. 

define [difain] v. 

To define means to clearly state, show, or explain what something is. 

-> People define success in many different ways. 

dread [dread] v. 

To dread is to be afraid of something that could, or is going to, happen. 
-* / dread the idea that I will not get into college. 


fundamental [fAndementl] adj. 

If something is fundamental, it is a basic part of something. 

— The fundamental rules of basketball are easy. 

horrifying [ho refairj] adj. 

If something is horrifying, it is frightening and very unpleasant. 
-* There was a horrifying car accident today. 


incredulous [inkredjeles] adj. 

If someone is incredulous about something, they do not believe that it is true. 
-* She was incredulous that monkeys could ever drive a car. 


linger [linger] v. 

To linger is to last for a long time. 

-» The smell of fresh cookies lingered in the bakery. 

organism [oxgenizem] n. 

An organism is a living thing, especially a very small one. 

— We studied the organism on the microscope. 

paraphrase [paerefreiz] v. 

To paraphrase is to make someone else’s writing or speech shorter. 
The students were asked to paraphrase the story they just heard. 




plague [pleig] n. 

A plague is a serious disease that quickly spreads to many people. 

-* A plague in Europe killed millions of people. 

presently [prezantli] adv. 

If something happens presently, it is happening right now. 

Presently, our profits are good, but by next year we can do even better. 

random [raendam] adj. 

If something is random, it happens without any pattern or reason. 

— ■ Young children often ask random questions. 

riot [raiat] n. 

A riot is a crowd that reacts to bad news by violently breaking laws. 

- A riot broke out after the candidate lost the election. 

scribble [skribal] v. 

To scribble is to write something quickly without caring about how it looks. 
-- I scribbled a rough diagram of our plan and gave it to him. 

shrine [Jrain) n. 

A shrine is a religious building built to honor a person, event, or god. 

-* He prayed at the shrine for an hour. 

Solitude [sali1/u:d] n. 

Solitude is the state of being totally alone. 

John lives a life of solitude because he doesn’t get along well with people. 

Stark [stcixk] adj. 

If a contrast is stark, then the things being compared are utterly different. 
There is a stark contrast between their test scores. 

summon [sAman] v. 

To summon a person is to ask them to come to you. 

We summoned the doctor as soon as we noticed she was sick. 

Worsen [waxsan] v. 

To worsen is to get worse. 

-* The weather suddenly worsened, and we had to stay inside. 


171 



Exe 



^22 

A Choose the right word for the given definition 


1. 

to ask someone to come 




a. worsen 

b. 

scribble 


c. linger 

d. 

summon 

2. 

basic 




a. verse 

b. 

riot 


c. avail 

d. 

fundamental 

3. 

to get bigger 




a. expand 

b. 

define 


c. stark 

d. 

organism 

4. 

to be afraid 




a. dread 

b. 

shrine 


c. random 

d. 

horrifying 

5. 

not believing 




a. solitude 

b. 

presently 


c. incredulous 

d. 

plague 


[?£££/ B Choose the right definition for the given word 

1. plague 


a. a violent reaction 

b. 

different 

c. a disease 

d. 

without reason 

solitude 

a. being alone 

b. 

success 

c. afraid 

d. 

right now 

define 

a. to last a long time 

b. 

to get bigger 

c. to explain clearly 

d. 

to make easier 

organism 

a. a religious building 

b. 

a living thing 

c. not believing 

d. 

to send for 

horrifying 

a. to get worse 

b. 

basic 

c. to write quickly 

d. 

very unpleasant 





Choose the word that is the better fit for each blank, 


1. 

shrine / riot 
There was a 

in the city yesterday, but the 

was not 


damaged. 



2. 

paraphrased / defined 

For the book report, 1 

the book and clearly 

the author’s 


purpose for writing it. 



3. 

expand / presently 




There are 15 members in the group , but I expect that number to 


4. avail / solitude 

His attempt to catch the train was to no . He spent hours in 

waiting for the next one. 

5. fundamental / worsen 

The point of my speech was to show that people need to act. If we 

don’t do something, things will . 

6. linger / scribble 

I tried to the information as fast as I could because I didn’t have time to 


7. dreaded / horrifying 

After seeing that plane crash, I flying. 

8. incredulous / stark 

She was that there could be such a contrast between 

boys’ and girls’ grades. 

9. organism / summon 

We should scientists from around the world to study this new 


10. plague / random 

At first we thought people were getting sick. Then we realized that a 

was spreading. 



Thucydides and 

the Plague of Athens 


Thucydides was the world’s first historian. Presently, we get most of our knowledge 
about ancient Greece from his writing. But Thucydides didn’t just write about history, he 
lived through it. However, he almost didn’t survive one historical event: the Plague of 
Athens. 

In 430 BCE, an army attacked the city of Athens, where Thucydides lived. Thousands 
of people hid from the army behind Athens’ large walls. The city became very crowded 
as the population expanded. Then a horrifying disease broke out. People summoned 
doctors. But it was to no avail because no one understood how the disease spread. 

It seemed random. They didn’t know that it was an organism. Instead, they defined 
disease as a punishment from their gods. Thucydides was incredulous that gods caused 
the plague, but he explained why others believed it. There was an old, long verse which 
predicted the disease. To paraphrase it, the verse said the gods would send a disease 
during a war. As a result, large crowds gathered at shrines to ask the gods to stop the 
plague. But the situation only worsened because these people were so close to each 
other they became sick. That’s how they learned a fundamental lesson about the plague: 
it spread from person to person. 

People wanted to leave the crowded city, but they dreaded what the army outside would 
do to them. At this time, Thucydides got sick, too. He quickly scribbled down notes because 
he thought he would soon die. His writing shows a stark contrast between people’s behavior 
before and during the plague. There were riots, and people ignored laws. They didn’t think 
they’d live long enough to be punished. Many sick people were left to die in solitude because 
no one wanted to be near them. The plague lingered for two years. But luckily, Thucydides 
survived. Without his writing, we would know much less about ancient Greece and the Plague 
of Athens. 




rifllTlIiiiTwnji 










arssfci 




a 








■ it 




as 




A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Presently, a horrifying plague has broken out in Athens. 


2. At first, people thought the spread of the disease was random. 


3. The people summoned doctors to no avail. 


4. Thucydides was incredulous that the plague was caused by an organism. 


5. By gathering in shrines, people made the plague worse. 


6. Thucydides luckily survived the plague. 


mxa B Answer the questions. 

1. Why did Athens’ population expand? 

a. Because the army moved into the city 

b. Because people were hiding from the army 

c. Because the army told people to enter 

d. Because people dreaded the plague 

2. Thucydides scribbled quickly because . 

a. there were so many riots b. he had to define the disease 

c. he though he’d die soon d. there were too many sick people 


3. What fundamental lesson did the people learn? 


a. The plague was a punishment, 
c. The plague was from the army. 


b. The plague was ended in the shrines, 
d. The plague was spread between people. 


4. What is NOT true of Thucydides? 
a. He was the world’s first historian, 

c. He survived the Plague of Athens. 


b. He thought gods caused the plague, 

d. He lived in the city of Athens. 




List 


automobile [o:t8m8bi:l] n. 

An automobile is a car. 

-* The first automobiles were very different from the ones that exist today. 

candidate [ksendideit] n. 

A candidate is a person who is competing to win something such as a job. 
-> Alice is the best candidate for the job. 

confidential [kdnfidenjai] adj. 

If something is confidential, it must be kept secret. 

-* The information from the meeting is confidential. 



Corporate [korparit] adj. 

If something is corporate, it is related to a large business. 

-» Tom enjoys working in the corporate world. 

enhance [enhaens] v. 

To enhance something is to make it better. 

-♦ Amy’s blue shirt really enhances the color of her eyes. 

era [era] n. 

An era is a period of time that has something special about it. 

-» During the medieval era, knights wore protective armor. 

guideline [gaidlain] n. 

A guideline is a rule about how to do something. 

-• Before they began the project, the teacher gave them some guidelines. 

incorporate [inkorpareit] v. 

To incorporate is to add something to another thing. 

-* / decided to incorporate a new ingredient into my cake recipe. 

interact [intaraekt] v. 

To interact is to talk to or do something with another person. 

— The kids began to interact when the adults left the room. 

interval [intan/al] n. 

An interval is the time between two things happening. 

-* Tony rested for brief intervals while he worked in the yard. 




I 





mobile [moubail] adj. 

If something is mobile, it can be moved easily. 

-» Mobile phones are popular because you can take them anywhere. 

modify [mddafai] v. 

To modify something is to change it a little bit. 

-* / modified my outfit by adding a belt to it. 

parallel [paeralel] adj. 

If two things are parallel, they are the same distance away from each other. 
-> There are two yellow parallel lines dividing both sides of traffic. 

phenomenon [findmandn] n. 

A phenomenon is something that can be seen as it is happening. 

-* / was amazed when I saw the phenomenon of shooting stars. 

pollute [paEu t] /. 

To pollute means to make air, water, or land dirty, unclean, or foul. 

The careless factory polluted the river with chemicals. 

ridicule [ndikju:l] V. 

To ridicule is to make fun of something in a mean way. 

-*■ The other students ridicule Peter’s foreign accent. 

solar [soular] adj. 

If something is solar, it is related to the sun. 

-* Using solar energy is good for the environment. 

territory Iterato r!] n. 

A territory is a piece of land that belongs to a country but isn’t a state. 

-* Gibraltar is a territory of Great Britain. 

tournament [tuaxnamant] n. 

A tournament is a competition, usually with many people participating. 

My dad is playing in a golf tournament tomorrow. 





transportation [traenspa:rtei/an] v. 

Transportation is any type of vehicle that can carry people orthings. 
-* / don’t have a car, so my normal transportation is the train. 




177 





Choose the word that is the better fit for each blank. 

1. enhance / candidate 

A survey found that not very many people like the . So he is trying to 

think of ways to his image and make people like him. 

2. era / solar 

We live in a(n) where people are very concerned about conserving our 

natural resources. Many people think using energy is a good way to do 

this. 

3. incorporate / pollute 

The company doesn’t want to the air anymore, so they are going to 

new rules for disposing waste. 

4. corporate / confidential 

The files were locked in the basement. The information in them was 

about important customers and had to be kept . 

5. mobile / phenomenon 

In the early 1900s, music records were an amazing . People back then 

would have been even more amazed by today’s music players. 

6. automobile / parallel 

The old was very large and difficult to drive. Jane had trouble parking it 

between the lines in the parking lot. 

7. ridiculed / transportation 

Ben didn’t listen to my advice about . Instead, he me and 

continued to drive fast, eventually causing an accident. 

8. guidelines / intervals 

The for the race are very simple: just run as fast as you can. There will 

be short when you can stop for a drink of water. 

9. modify / territories 

The government decided to its borders. It made several of its 

smaller so that it could create a new one. 

10. tournament / interact 

The baseball is always a lot of fun. It allows students from all over the 

city to with each other. 



Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. Factories built in the early 1900s contine to unleash che micals in to the air. 


2 . My soccer team is playing in a competition next weekend. 


3 . When the new buildings are finished, they will be th e same distance aw ay fro m each other . 


4 . In order for my science project to work, I need to alter it. 


5 . Amy hurt Jane’s feelings when she made fun of her. 


6. In this period of time , it’s more common for kids to play video games than read books 


7. Kate is very shy and doesn’t like to tal k to and do things with the other girls. 


8. Tom wants to add more colors into his painting. 


9. My grandfather used to race cars across the long distances in endurance races. 


10 . The person competing for the job interviewed very well. 



'J 


Choose the answer that best fits the question. 


Which of the following means confidential? 

a. soft b. compete c. moveable 

d. 

secret 

What is the word solar related to? 
a. Lines b. Land 

c. The sun 

d. 

A car 

Which of these is mobile? 
a. A tree b. A bus 

c. A building 

d. 

A sidewalk 

Which of the following is a form of transportation? 
a. a friend b. an airplane c. a new job 

d. 

a meal 

Which of these words are related to corporate? 
a. Business b. Time c. Competition 

d. 

Winning 



rt s t 



Lm 


The Solar Car Race 

We live in a mobile society. But the cars we drive require too much gas, plus they pollute 
the air. Eventually, the natural resources used to make gas will run out. So what happens 
then? Many people think solar-powered automobiles are the answer. To learn more about 
this type of transportation, teams from universities and corporate organizations gather in 
Australia every two years for a solar car race. 

The race is called the World Solar Challenge. Candidates for this tournament must 
design their own cars. The teams keep all their plans confidential. They don’t interact with 
other teams because the race is very competitive. And these cars aren’t just enhanced 
and modified versions of normal cars. They are completely different. 

The cars only have room for one person and are very simple inside— they don’t even 
have a cushion for the driver to sit on. These cars are shorter and much more flat than 
normal cars. Most importantly, the cars incorporate solar panels onto the outside that lie 
parallel to each other. These panels are made from materials that take in light from the 
sun and turn it into electric energy. That’s how they move. 

These cars race over 3,000 kilometers across the Australian territories. The drivers have 
to heed strict guidelines. They must stop at certain intervals to charge their batteries. And 
unlike normal race cars, they can’t go very fast. They have to drive at the normal speed 
limits. Although the drivers want to finish the race quickly, that is not the main goal. The 
objective is to see how well the cars work under normal driving conditions. 

Because of the World Solar Challenge, a new era in car making and in driving is 
beginning. People may ridicule the solar cars because they look strange, but this is a 
phenomenon that isn’t going away. Using the technology from the vehicles, car makers 
will eventually create solar cars for the rest of us. 




.hl.ita/ A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Candidates for this tournament must design their own cars. 


2 . Before the race, teams keep their plans confidential. 


3 . The cars incorporate metal panels on the outside that lie parallel to each other. 


4 . These cars drive less than 3,000 kilometers across the Australian territories. 


5 . The drivers have to heed strict transportation guidelines. 


6. They must stop at certain intervals to put air in theirtires. 


P/AEff B Answer the questions. 

1. What is the most important feature of the racecars? 

a. The way they pollute b. The simple design 

c. The solar panels d. The shorter height 


2 . 


The objective of the race is to find out how the solar cars 


a. drive in normal conditions 
c. will help the environment 


b. take in energy from the sun 
d. can go faster 


3 . Where are the race teams from? 
a. Computer companies 

c. Australian territories 


b. High schools 
d. Corporate organizations 


4 . Why don’t the teams interact with other teams? 

a. The race is competitive. b. The teams ridicule each other, 

c. The rules are strict. d. They don’t know each other. 



boundary [baundari] n. 

A boundary is the line where one area of land stops, and another begins. 
This fence shows the boundary between our yard and yours . 






♦ i* 



chaos [keias] n. 

Chaos is a situation that is confusing and not ordered. 

-* His presentation was in chaos. I couldn’t understand what he meant. 

Consistent [kansistsnt] adj. 

If a person is consistent, they keep the same behavior or attitude. 

-* Sara comes in every day and is our most consistent worker. 

cyclone [saikloun] n. 

A cyclone is a large storm with heavy rain and winds that spin in a circle. 

— Hundreds of homes were damaged by the cyclone. 

doomed [du:md] adj. 

If someone or something is doomed, they are going to fail or be destroyed. 
-* Since I spent all my money, my date with Jane is doomed. 

heir [ear] n. 

An heir is a person who receives money or property of someone who dies. 

— The princess was the heir to the king and queen’s throne. 

martial [ma^ai] adj. 

If something is martial, it is related to fighting or war. 

-* Karate is a martial art that began many years ago in japan. 

organic [oxgaenik] adj. 

If food is organic, it is grown without adding chemicals to it. 

-» The organic carrots are more expensive, but they’re better for you. 

poultry [poultri] n. 

Poultry is a bird, such as a chicken, that is used for meat and eggs. 

-» He raises poultry and sells their meat for extra money. 


182 


scramble [skraembl] v. 

To scramble is to move somewhere quickly and desperately. 

— The hikers scrambled down the side of the hill. 

sergeant [sa:rd3snt] n. 

A sergeant is a soldier or police officer of middle rank. 

— ■ He was promoted to sergeant after a year in the army. 

sheer [fieri adj. 

If you describe something as sheer, it is complete and very strong. 

-■> / was impressed by her sheer dedication to jogging. 

Stance [staens] n. 

A stance is an attitude about an issue that someone states clearly. 

-* My stance is that using oil and gas is bad for the environment. 

telegraph [teleyraef] n. 

A telegraph is a method of sending electric messages on wires. 

— In the 1900s, the telegraph was the fastest way to send a message. 

textile [tekstail] n. 

Textile is cloth that has been woven or knitted. 

-* The blue textile was going to be used to make blouses. 

tornado [torneidou] n. 

A tornado is a tube-shaped formation of air that spins very quickly. 

— During a tornado, the safest place to be is underground. 

typhoon [taifum] n. 

A typhoon is a large tropical storm that moves in circles. 

— Thousands of people lost electricity after a typhoon hit Australia. 

wail [weil] v. 

To wail is to show sadness by crying loudly. 

-♦ The baby wailed because it was hungry. 

wardrobe [wordroub] n. 

A wardrobe is the collection of all of a person’s clothing. 

— ■ She bought some new clothes to expand her wardrobe. 




e 


Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. Which of the following is a kind of storm? 

a. A typhoon b. A bill 

c. A sergeant d. A boundary 

2. Which of the following would come from a farm? 

a. Organic vegetables b. Wool textiles 

c. A person’s wardrobe d. Short telegraphs 


3. Which of the following would help students taking a test? 
a. Reading in chaos b. Sheer luck 

c. Taking martial arts classes 


d. Consistent studying 


4. Who should expect to receive something? 
a. A brave sergeant 
c. A man with a strong stance 


b. A dead man’s heir 
d. A man who needs a bill 


5. Which of the following would be loudest? 
a. Cooked poultry 
c. A doomed project 


b. A scrambling woman 
d. Wailing children 


6. Which word is not related to martial arts? 

a. Taekwondo b. Karate 

c. Judo d. Tango 

7. What can a person get from poultry? 

a. Meat b. Fruit 

c. Pants d. Soldiers 


8. What is part of a person’s wardrobe? 
a. A dog 
c. A dress 


b. A vegetable 
d. A teacher 


9. Where would you most likely find a sergeant? 

a. In a store b. In an army 

c. In a factory d. In a class 


10. Which situation is full of chaos? 
a. A man driving a car 
c. A girl walking 


b. Students reading 
d. Armies fighting 


I 


184 




A Match the phrases to make complete sentences. 

1. The heir of Mr. Smith’s fortune . 

2. This is a martial matter, . 

3. The kids started wailing . 

4. I used the telegraph to . 

5. Everyone scrambled to . 

6. The sergeant ordered the . 

7. He’s very consistent and . 

8. When the cyclone arrives, . 

9. The boundary of my land . 

10. First we color the textiles, . 


a. there will be a lot of wind and rain 
c. is the fence not the road 
e. other soldiers to march 
g. avoid the rushing water 

i. will become very rich 


b. when their toys were taken away 
d. and the soldiers should take care of it 
f. never really changes his attitude 
h. and then we make them into clothes, 
j. tell my family about the new baby 


[J&Gftj 5 B Match the clauses to make complete sentences. 

1. During the summer, we always keep a supply of food and water in the basement 

2. He didn’t like a strong central government, . 

3. He failed the test, . 

4. I won’t go to fast food restaurants . 

5. I was disappointed . 

6. The police were called . 

7. We all took shelter, . 

8. He quickly took out his credit card. . 

9. I want to buy a new suit, . 

10. She lost a few kilos . 


a. because I only eat organic food b. because the event turned into chaos 
: c. so he could pay the bill d. because she ate only poultry and fruit 

| e. but that doesn’t mean the school years is doomed 

: f. because of their sheer lack of sportsmanship 

: g. but my wardrobe is pretty full h. so we knew his stance on politics 

: i. since the typhoon was raging j. because that’s when tornados are common 


185 




— - 


The Heirs 


Martin, Paul and Tom were brothers. They were very different, but they were consistent 
about two things. They couldn’t succeed in business, and they never agreed about 
anything. Martin was a hardworking farmer, growing organic vegetables and raising 
poultry. But he was disorganized and forgot to pay his bills. Paul owned a textile factory 
that produced clothes. He was organized, but he was greedy and took too much clothing. 
His wardrobe was filled with his own products. Tom was once a sergeant in the army. He 
ran a martial arts school, but his stance on discipline was too strong. He had almost no 
students. 

One day, they received a telegraph saying that their father had died. They were heirs 
to his old farm. They planned to sell it as soon as possible, so they went to see it even 
though there was a terrible storm. The house didn’t look great, but there was a lot of land. 
There was so much, in fact, that they could barely see its boundary. 

Suddenly, the storm got worse. The sheer force of the wind almost knocked them 
over. Martin said, “Look, it’s a typhoon!” Paul said, “No, it’s a cyclone.” Tom said, “No, 
it’s a tornado!” They argued until Paul began to wail and said, “Whatever it is, it’s coming 
right at us! We’re doomed!” The three brothers scrambled inside the old house. Martin 
said, “If we survive, we must stop fighting. This farm could be great if we fixed it up. With 
my hard work, Paul’s organization and Tom’s discipline, we could run a great business 

together!” The storm finally ended. And luckily, it didn’t wreck 
the farm. 

“lust think,” Martin said, “it took the chaos of a typhoon 
to bring us together.” Paul replied, “You mean a cyclone 
brought us together.” Tom said, “Didn’t I tell you 
both that it was a tornado?” The brothers 
never agreed on what kind of storm it 
was, but by combining their skills, they 
started a successful farm. 




it _ 




fi 

- i 






PZ^Eu’ A Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Tom was a farmer who grew organic vegetables and poultry. 


2. Paul’s wardrobe was filled with clothes from his factory. 


3. Tom was a sergeant in the army before running a martial arts school. 


4. Martin’s stance on discipline was too strong. 


5. The brothers learned of their father’s death through a telegraph. 


6 . The brothers could see the land’s boundary. 


B Answer the questions. 

1. The brothers were consistent about what two things? 

a. Good farming and arguing b. Bad farming and business 

c. Bad business and arguing d. Good business and arguing 

2. The brothers were almost knocked down by . 

a. Tom’s bills b. the chaos of the storm 

c. Paul’s wardrobe d. the sheer force of the wind 


3. Why wasn’t Paul’s textile factory successful? 

a. He was greedy and took home clothes, b. He gave away too much money, 
c. He was too disorganized. d. He was too mean. 


4. Who was the father’s heir? 
a. Martin 
c. Paul 


b. Tom 

d. All three men 



A 


absolute 38 

accent • no 

access 50 

accident •••••••••••• 14 

account** 44 

accurate •• 140 

admiral 14 

admonish •■•••••••• 20 

affect •••♦••••*••••♦• 80 

afflicted —•••••••••• 116 

aircraft 152 

aisle •• 116 

alas 38 

alliance ♦ ••• 68 

alongside 56 

alternative 74 

although 92 

altogether 98 

analyze 140 

animate 62 

appetite 56 


applause • •*• 68 

apply 92 

arc 14 

architect 44 

armed 68 

aroma • 8 

assist ••• 56 

assumption 158 

asteroid - •••• 140 

atmosphere 116 

attentive 38 

audible 20 

author 116 

authoritative 68 

autograph 80 

automobile 176 

avail**---*** 170 

avenue** * * 74 

await 92 

awesome 20 

awhile 32 


B 


background 128 

bait 128 

barber 110 

barley 158 

basement 110 

bead * •• so 

beak 26 

beast 158 

belly 74 

beloved • • 92 

beneficial 164 

betray 122 

beverage • •♦•••• 8 

beware 20 

bid 74 

bill 182 

bind 98 

birthplace 164 

blank 110 

blast • 122 

blink *••••• 110 

blow * 74 

boundary 182 

bracelet ••* 122 

brag 20 

breakdown •••• 116 

breeze* 56 

brew so 

brick 86 

bruise 98 

bury 92 


c 


candidate 176 

capacity 164 

cape . . 38 

cargo 116 

cease * 122 

celebrity ••*•••• 152 

ceremony ***** 68 

chaos ****** 182 


chapter * 116 

character 14 

charity 134 

charm-* 80 

cherish 146 

choir *- • • • ••••*■ 110 

choke 122 

chronicle 128 

civil 122 

civilization 104 

classify 62 

climate 92 

cluster 8 

colonel 158 

combine 8 

comic 110 

comment 122 

commerce 134 

comparative 164 

compassion * 146 

complain ••♦*•••••• 92 

complicate 110 

comprehensive •• 164 
conceal •* • ■ ••• 44 

concede 62 

concept 62 

concrete 152 

condemn 134 

condensed 8 

conduct 50 

confidential **•**•• 176 

conflict 74 

confuse 92 

connect 116 

conscience 14 

conscious 20 

consent 146 

conserve * 164 

consistent 182 

constant * * 50 

construct • 62 

contagious 158 

contemporary* 8 

continent 74 


controversy 140 

convenient * 104 

copper 128 

core ■ 146 

corporate 176 

corpse 158 

cozy 134 

crack 50 

crime ••• - 44 

crisis 158 

cross 122 

crucial i 64 

crumble 86 

cultivate 8 

culture 68 

cumulative 164 

cunning 146 

cure 158 

current 74 

custom ....... .... 98 

cyberspace 32 

cyclone 182 



damp 26 

decade 62 

decisive -* 152 

decline • • * 110 

deed 44 

defense 68 

define 170 

deformed**--- 158 

defy - 56 

den 104 

dent 122 

deplete 134 

deposit 164 

destiny 80 

detail 68 

device 50 

dew 104 

diagram 62 

disagree 20 





disapprove 26 

discriminate 158 

disease 128 

disobedient 98 

display 56 

disrespect 74 

distribute 164 

distrust 122 

diverse 68 

divine 8 

dizzy 146 

doomed 182 

dough ••••• 86 

drastic 104 

dread 170 

due 92 


E 


echo 20 

economy 134 

edit 32 

efficient 56 

embassy 159 

empire 134 

enchant 68 

enclose 50 

enhance 176 

enthusiasm 74 

entire 92 

envision 38 

equator 165 

equilibrium 146 

equip 69 

era 176 

errand 110 

essay 32 

establish 93 

esteemed 152 

etc. 116 

ethical 152 

evaluate 32 

evenly 38 

eventual 20 


evolve 140 

except 26 

exception 69 

exit 104 

exotic 165 

expand 170 

express 86 

extinct 152 

extinguish 159 


F 


factor 140 

faint 32 

federal 165 

feeble 56 

ferry 62 

fiery 14 

fist 86 

flesh 14 

flexible 86 

flight 26 

flint 159 

flip 116 

flock 104 

flush 86 

fold 104 

folk 38 

folklore 128 

fond 26 

foresee 98 

forgive 56 

formation 165 

fort 123 

foster 146 

found 123 

frequency 165 

fundamental 170 

furnace 93 


G 


genetic 140 

genome 140 


genre 69 

glimpse 98 

global * 32 

glove in 

goods 134 

grapefruit 14 

gratitude 44 

grind 146 

grip so 

growl 146 

guideline 176 

gymnasium 32 


H 


habitat 44 

halt 50 

handy 62 

harass 159 

hardy 152 

harsh 75 

hay 14 

heed 134 

heir 182 

hermit m 

highlight 32 

hint 20 

hitchhike 134 

hoop 98 

horn so 

horrified 14 

horrifying 170 

humid 8 


I 


identical 140 

idiot 21 

idle ii 7 

ignorant 32 

immense 21 

immoral 26 

impact 69 

impending 50 


incorporate 176 

incredulous 170 

index 33 

indirect 21 

infect 128 

influence so 

injure 86 

institute 152 

integrate 159 

intellectual 140 

interact 176 

interval 176 

intervene 44 

irritable 80 

isolate 62 

itch 128 

ivy 26 


J 


jealousy 152 

justly 111 


K 


kerosene is 


L 


lag so 

landmark 44 

law 51 

lean 75 

leash 93 

leather ill 

lecture 33 

legal 44 

lid 104 

linger 170 

lining 123 

literature 128 

lively 56 

longing 63 


189 










loom •• 104 

loop — — — — 15 

lump 86 

lure — — * 69 


M 


majestic 57 

majority 141 

mammal— •* 141 
martial — 182 

mass 123 

mature 93 

maximize so 

meantime 75 

measure — • 93 

melt 38 

memorable •• 45 

midst — 93 

mighty — — 105 

migrate 153 

millennium 128 

miniature 159 

mischief — • 75 

misery 93 

misfortune 98 

mixture — — 86 

moan — — 26 

mobile •*— 177 

mock-*-—-—**-* 135 

mode 5 i 

moderation •— — 147 

modify 177 

moral —————— 33 

multiply ■— — 141 

muscle 75 

mushroom -- • 105 

myth 129 


N 


native——— 105 
negative .... ... . 98 

neutral 135 


nightmare 8 i 

nor- 57 

notify 117 

numerous — *• 63 

nurture — 153 

nutrition 159 

nutritious 8 i 


o 


objective 165 

oblige — — 45 

oblivious 26 

obstacle — — — 69 

odor 8 

offense •*— 45 

offspring — — 141 

operate 33 

option ■ • 21 

organic 182 

organism 170 

outraged 57 

overhead 153 

oxygen 165 


p 


paddle 15 

palate 9 

paradise 9 

parallel 177 

paraphrase 170 

particle — — 63 

pastime 21 

patch 38 

pea — 117 

per 99 

perfect — — 21 

perish 27 

persecute 135 

perspire 51 

pessimistic 57 

pesticide 141 

phenomenon > • 1 77 


pinpoint .... .... 21 

pit 27 

pity - 135 

plague 171 

plantation — — — 9 

plea — — — 63 

plead — 99 

pleasure- 38 

poison — • — 105 

pollute — 177 

ponder — — — 111 

pop .... ...... 39 

poultry 182 

pray - — • 123 

predator • 147 

presently 171 

principle — 153 

prior — — 93 

private ..... 33 

proclaim ... 45 

promote — — — 129 
promptly—— 159 

protein 81 

pudding ..... .. . . 39 


R 


raft 15 

rail—————— 39 

rainforest — 165 

raisin 117 

rally 45 

random 171 

rapid — — — 9 

rate — — 9 

recent 33 

recipe 39 

reconcile — 87 

reduce 135 

reed — — 105 

refrain — 63 

regulate 141 

reinforce — 141 
relate — 129 


religion 129 

replace — 51 

rescue 75 

research — — 93 

reserve 111 

resolution 33 

resolve — — — 45 

resource—— 45 

retain — — 117 

review •• 63 

ridicule * 177 

rife 123 

rim •— . ... . 27 

riot 171 

rip 99 

role 39 

roost — 27 

ruin 87 

rumor —————— 57 

rural 153 


s 


sake—— — — 99 

sane———— 147 

saucer 147 

scramble 183 

scrape ............... 99 

scribble 171 

scribe — — 135 

script 111 

search 111 

secluded 153 

semester- •• 33 

sentence — 45 

sergeant — — — — 183 

shatter — • 87 

sheer — — 183 

shelter 69 

shield-———— 105 

shrine 171 

shrink- — 39 

shutter — — 87 
sift — 87 








signature 81 

slam 111 

slap 57 

slight 87 

slippery 27 

sly 51 

smash 57 

snap ■ 51 

snatch 147 

soak 39 

soar 27 

solar 177 

sole 123 

solitude--- 171 

soothing 9 

sophisticated- • 63 

sort--- 69 

sour 15 

source • •••• • 99 

spark 39 

sparkle • 87 

species 153 

spirit 39 

sprinkle •■•••• 87 

stagger 147 

staircase ••• 111 

stake 15 

stale 87 

stance •••• 183 

stark 171 

state ••••••• 117 

stern ■••••••• 99 

steward 15 

stitch 99 

stormy 105 

strategy ••••—• 165 

stricken •••—•• — • 141 

string 15 

stuff 81 

stumble •••• 147 

subconscious--- bi 

subject 57 

subtle •••••■ •••••••• 9 

succession 75 


suit 39 

sum 129 

summon 171 

supply 69 

surrender-- 63 

swamp •••••• 153 

sway 105 

sweep ••■•••••• 123 

switch 21 


T 


technician 159 

telegraph 183 

teller 129 

temper 135 

tend---- 51 

tense 147 

terrain 75 

territory 177 

textile ••••• 183 

texture • ••• 9 

thorn 15 

thorough 21 

throne 135 

thump • 99 

timid 75 

torment 21 

tornado •••••••• • 183 

tournament 177 

toxic 9 

transportation •••• 177 

traverse 153 

tray 117 

treachery 123 

trivial 27 

tropics 159 

trustworthy 129 

tuck 123 

tumble 147 

typewritten 33 

typhoon 183 

typical 27 



unfortunate 117 

unity 135 

update 129 

upright 63 

urban •••••••■ 105 

utter . 87 

utterly 27 



vain ••• 69 

valid ••• .. .. 51 

van •••••• 8 i 

variety ••••••■ 93 

vary ••• 9 

vast •••• 141 

vegetarian •••• 141 

vehement ••••••■■•• 99 

vein 129 

venom 129 

version 51 

victor 135 

violence ••••• 75 

vivid - 117 

volunteer 45 

vomit 117 


w 


wade •••••••••••• 105 

wage 57 

wail •••• 183 

wardrobe 183 

warn . si 

weep • ••••■• 27 

weird •••••■• 33 

whatsoever- 51 

whereas 57 

withhold 147 

witness ••• 45 

wooded 165 

workout 8 i 


worsen ... ..... .... 171 

worthwhile 63 

wreck ••• 15 


□ 


zoology 

..... 153 

zoom-*-* 

. 81 