u I Nation 





4000 Essential English Words 6 


4000 Essential English Words 6 

Paul Nation 

© 2009 Compass Publishing 

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, stored in a 
retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, 
mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without prior 
permission in writing from the publisher. 

Acquisitions Editor: Fidel Cruz 
Project Coordinator: Annie Cho 
Design: Design Plus 

email: info@compasspub.com 
http://www.compasspub.com 

ISBN: 978-1-59966 407-1 

10 98765432 
12 11 


Photo Credits 

All images © Shutterstock, Inc. 


Unit 

 

alleviate, astrology, differentiate, disrupt, equation, err, erroneous, frantic, hull, inadvertent, improvise, 
latitude, mariner, multitude, nuisance, permanence, revolve, soothe, stranded, volatile ,


arduous, attain, coexist, conceive, dubious, ego, elastic, endeavor, engrave, excavate, 
jagged, locale, mold, outright, periphery, plaster, shovel, skeletal, terrestrial, vicious ,


absurd, anemia, aristocracy, aristocrat, attire, craze, enlarge, excess, feminine, hallmark, 
pad, predominant, reputable, rouge, signify, strap, tangle, vanity, vie, vulgar ,

attic, chunk, civic, descent, din, dissatisfy, fuss, gourmet, hence, intrinsic, kettle, ministry, 
ordeal, outspoken, overwork, particular, pungent, snore, soundly, superintendent ,


alternate, apologetic, benign, char, clarify, distress, dogged, ensue, gasp, negotiate, 
overdose, persuasion, relay, reluctance, restate, sesame, sip, verge, wary, waver ,

ashore, contradict, counterpart, devoid, diverge, elude, embryo, fend, fictitious, gazette, 
homogeneous, obstruct, plunge, prolong, publicize, sparse, surplus, theorize, verify, vigorous ,

altar, arthritis, botany, credible, deceased, deception, decipher, dung, dusk, gratify, 
hone, mash, ornate, pneumonia, psychic, psychotic, scope, sinister, strife, therapeutic ,

congested, courier, deform, etiquette, exclusive, freight, garment, insomnia, intuitive, liable, 
obsess, overboard, premium, privilege, propel, socialize, suppress, tram, unsettle, warp ,


artery, deterioration, elusive, forage, impede, induce, inseparable, invalid, magnify, mainstream, 
microbe, negligible, paralysis, pest, prevail, respiration, rupture, savage, stun, susceptible ,

accumulate, aerial, apparatus, avalanche, consistency, convection, discharge, intact, mortal,  
omen, overcast, poignant, ranger , rubble, seclude, sideways, sob, sober, speck, upbringing ,

advocate, authorize, civilian, commodity, conquest, disclose, dynamics, enroll, envious,  
euphoria, festive, jolly, lentil, marshal, morale, prophecy, sage, senate, sentiment, unrest ,

adorn, bliss, butler, cramp, dilapidated, evoke, farewell, faucet, filth, flaw, grin, 
housekeeping, mound, numb, reckless, slate, stool, testament, timber, valve ,

certify, collaborate, compile, counteract, curb, diagnose, enact, federation, gross, humane, 
intolerable, needy, onset, pledge, prohibit, rash, render, smallpox, transmit, vow ,


camouflage, contemplate, contend, cot, enlist, frontier, handbook, hesitant, lush, marrow,  
outfit, paw, quiver, splendid, stray, substantial, torch, tract, vigil, weary ,

adhere, administer, compassionate, contaminate, deficiency, epidemic, hazard, imperative, intestines, manifest,  
metabolic, overcrowded, paramount, practitioner, provision, replenish, sterile, upgrade, viable, voluntary ,


 

amid, backstage, billionaire, brute, clumsy, collide, culprit, evacuate, flammable, mob, 
premature, resent, satire, scrutiny, segregate, subject, testify, tumult, underestimate, uproar ,

accelerate, anew, defect, dreary, duplicate, electromagnetic, electron, glide, ingenious, innovation, 
innovative, launch, meteorological, meteorology, penetrate, propulsion, simulate, spur, stimulate, tenacious ,

beforehand, centigrade, chatter, concerto, condense, cove, deteriorate, exterior, freeway, hearty, 
hospitable, manor, monastery, nursery, outstretched, parcel, profile, vivacious, winding, zip ,

airway. Almighty, advent, constellation, definitive, equate, inhale, invoke, lunar, novelty, 
outmoded, personalize, pertain, primal, psychiatric, psychiatry, reflex, seizure, session, utensil ,

adhesive, adverse, dependency, dump, eternal, fluctuate, fro, inclusion, intermediate, intermittent, 
mentor, phoenix, photosynthesis, pollen, regain, reverse, swarm, texture, tickle, vibrant ,


 


abolish, amend, aspire, censor, charter, constitution, cosmopolitan, disseminate, flatter, 
infamous, lame, limp, outburst, pathological, phenomenal, poll, remorse, secrecy, tackle, trance ,

 
coward, delete, firsthand, earnest, ethnic, exclude, fluent, imperial, inclusive, legislature, 
linguistic, monolingual, nationality, patriot, prosecute, racial, solemn, solidarity, tact, undermine ,

 

2g allocate, appetizing, blizzard, cavity, clockwise, concentric, courtesy, crisp, discord, frigid, 
generate, glacial, interchange, locker, multicultural, omission, oversee, pierce, replicate, wavy ,

 


abide, conversion, cram, defer, export, fume, habitual, justify, output, overpopulation, patent, 
penalize, petroleum, prototype, scrap, sector, subscribe, subsist, suspend, synthesis ,

acrobat, advocacy, communal, fluid, harmonize, industrious, inventive, judicial. Mandarin, 
metropolitan, mimic, misguided, rehearse, scorn, sensory, staple, statute, veteran, villain, vine ,

constrain, depot, emulate, forefinger, guts, inherent, intimidate, janitor, moist, nope, 
prod, ransom, restrain, saliva, spit, sprint, stunt, tolerant, vampire, yawn ,


j- analogy, ancestry, archer, conspiracy, deputy, earl, fragrant, funnel, hereditary, hymn, 
invert, prey, procession, prophet, sarcastic, seasoning, sodium, tyranny, tyrant, vinegar ,


 

adjoining, allege, arch, assemble, casualty, erect, foul, hectare, heighten, hospitality, 
mansion, outnumber, overjoyed, pasture, petition, renovate, revise, slab, terrace, turf ,

analogous, binoculars, bulk, comprise, depict, dual, Fahrenheit, fulfill, grove, ore, outback, 
outweigh, paradox, pier, shortcut, tariff, thermometer, tilt, vice versa, whereabouts ,

amber, charcoal, columnist, courteous, credentials, crickets, delta, detergent, euphemism, 
expire, granite, gravel, haunt, liberal, maze, moss, peck, pebble, reservoir, streak 


 



ntrodOtti 


About the Vocabulary 

The 600 words in each book of this series along with the additional target words 
presented in the appendices included in the first three books of the series are the most 
useful words in English. They were found by analysis of a collection of English course 
books from various levels in the primary, secondary and tertiary school systems. The 
words included in this series were chosen because they occurred many times in different 
levels of these materials. Because of the way 

that they were chosen, these words have the following characteristics: 

1 They are useful in both spoken and written English. No matter what English course 
you are studying, the words in these books will be of value to you. 

2 Each word in these books is a high-frequency word. This means that the effort in 
learning the words is well repaid by the number of times learners have a chance to 
encounter or use them. 

3 These books as a whole cover a large proportion of the words in any spoken or written 
text. They cover at least 80% of the words in newspapers and academic texts, and 

at least 90% of the words in novels. They also cover at least 90% of the words in 
conversation. 


About the Books 

The activities in these books are specially designed to make use of important learning 
conditions. Firstly, the words are introduced using sentence definitions and an example 
sentence. The activities that follow in the units encourage learners to recall the meanings 
and forms of the words. Some activities also make the learners think about the meaning 
of the words in the context of a sentence — a sentence different from the sentences that 
occurred in the introduction of the words. Moreover, each unit ends with a story containing 
the target words. While reading the story, the learners have to recall the meanings of the 
words and suit them to the context of the story. Such activities help learners develop a 
better understanding of a common meaning for a given word which fits the different uses. 

Illustrations for each target word are provided to help learners visualize the word as it 
is being used in the example sentence. These word/image associations aim to help 
students grasp the meaning of the word as well as recall the word later. 


to 




it should be noted that words have more than one grammatical category. However, this 
series focuses on the word’s most common form. This is mentioned to remind learners 
that just because a word is labeled and utilized as a noun in this series does not mean 
that it can never be used in another form such as an adjective. This series has simply 
focused on the word in the form that it is most likely to be expressed. 

Supporting Learning with Outside Activities 

A well-balanced language course provides four major opportunities for learning: learning 
through input, learning through output, deliberate learning, and fluency development. The 
highly structured activities in these books support all four types of learning opportunities. 
In addition, learning can further be supported through the following activities: 

1 Have students create vocabulary cards with one word from the unit on one side of the 
card and the translation of the word in the student’s first language on the other side. 
Students should use the cards for study in free moments during the day. Over several 
weeks, students will find that quick repeated studying for brief periods of time is more 
effective than studying for hours at one sitting. 

2 Assign graded readers at students’ appropriate levels. Reading such books provides 
both enjoyment as well as meaning-focused input which will help the words stick in 
students' memory. 

3 Practice reading fluency to promote faster recall of word meaning for both sight 
recognition and usage. Compass Publishing’s Reading for Speed and Fluency is a 
good resource for reading fluency material. 

4 Include listening, speaking, and writing activities in classes. Reinforcement of the 
high-frequency vocabulary presented in this series is important across all the four 
language skills. 


Paul Nation is professor of Applied Linguistics In the School of Linguistics and Applied Language Studies 
at Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand. He has taught in Indonesia. Thailand, the United States, 
Finland, and japan. His specialist interests are language teaching methodology and vocabulary learning. 


Author Paul Nation 





UNIT 


Word List 


i 


L 1 J 





alleviate [an vieit] v. 

To alleviate pain or suffering means to make it less intense or severe. 

-♦ She needed something to alleviate the pain in her back. 

astrology [astroladji] n. 

Astrology is the study of the stars in the belief that they influence people’s lives. 

-» lack, who studies astrology, believes that the stars can predict the future. 

differentiate [difarenpeitl v. 

To differentiate things or people is to show the difference between them. 

-» It was hard to differentiate between the identical twins. 

disrupt IdisrAptl V. 

To disrupt something or someone is to prevent them from working. 

-* The loud crash disrupted the class lecture. 

equation [i(:)kwei39n] n. 

An equation is a math operation to determine the value of something. 

-* / used the Pythagorean theorem to solve the equation. 

err [a r] v. 

To err means to make a mistake. 

-* The pilot erred in his estimate of the time it would take to make the trip. 

erroneous [irounias] adj. 

When something is erroneous, it is incorrect or only partly correct. 

— ► The child held the erroneous belief that time machines were real. 

frantic [frsentik] adj. 

If people or things are frantic, they behave in a wild way because they are frightened 
-* The cat became frantic when I tried to give it a bath. 

hull Ml n. 

The hull of a boat or tank is the main body of it. 

-* After the wreck at sea, the ship's hull was the last part to sink. 

inadvertent [inadvertent] adj. 

When an action is inadvertent, it is done without realizing what you are doing. 

-» She made an inadvertent error when she knocked over the nail polish. 







improvise [imprsvaiz] v. 

To improvise something is to do it with whatever is available or without planning. 
— * rhere was no meat for the pizza, so we improvised with what was in the fridge. 

latitude [Icetat/ud] n. 

The latitude of a place is its distance from the equator. 

— The device was able to tell the traveler his exact latitude. 

mariner [maergn ar] n. 

A mariner is a sailor. 

-♦ The old mariner used his telescope to find the shore. 

multitude [mAitiyu d] n. 

A multitude of things or people is a very large number of them. 

-» A multitude of people were waiting at the airport. 

nuisance [ryusans] n. 

A nuisance is a person or thing that is annoying or causes a lot of problems. 

-* The teenager considered her noisy little brothers to be quite a nuisance. 

permanence Lpoirmanonsl n. 

The permanence of something is its ability to last forever. 

— * Poor results will threaten the permanence of the new teaching system. 

revolve [rivdiv] v. 

To revolve around something is to keep it as the main feature or focus. 

-* My life revolves around sports. 

soothe isu a] v. 

To soothe means to calm someone who is angry or upset. 

-» The mother soothed her crying baby by rocking him in her arms. 

Stranded Istraendid] ad). 

If someone is stranded, they are prevented from leaving a place. 

-» When the plane left, my sister and I were stranded in China. 

volatile [vdlatil) adj. 

When something is volatile, it is likely to change suddenly and unexpectedly. 

-* The volatile volcano might explode at any moment. 


CT3 


Exercise I 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. He chose to paint a picture on the main body of the boat. 


2. When the plane crashed on the island, the passenger knew he was prevented fr om leavin g. 


3. I admired the very large number of stamps in his collection. 


4. I took some aspirin to make less my back pain. 


5. The countries were concerned about the treaty’s ability to last forever. 


6. Australia’s distance from the equator is less extreme than I imagined. 


7. I’m still not sure if the math opera tion I did was correct. 


8 . When the rats got out of the cage, the girl was behaving in a wild way because of fear. 


9. The incorrect or partly correct information gave us the wrong idea about the president. 


10. When he forgot his rope at home, he had to make one u sing whatever was available. 


s 


Exercise 2 


Fill in the blanks with the correct words from the word bank. 


• — 

nuisance latitude soothed multitude mariners 

frantic hull erroneous volatile stranded 


When the heat was turned off, we became quite 1 

When it finally came back on, our concerns and fears were 2 

The iceberg caused severe damage to the ship’s 3 

The motor stopped working, and the ship became 4 

When he has too much to drink, he can become quite 5 

His unpredictable behavior is not dangerous, but he is a 6 

During our journey, we arrived at the wrong 7 . 

I suppose our calculations were 8 . 

When the ship came in, I was surprised at the number of 9 

I thought there would only be a few sailors, but there was a 10 


Exercise 3 


Write C if the italicized word is used correctly. Write l if the word is used incorrectly. 

1. She loves to improvise peanut butter and jelly sandwiches for lunch. 

2. Ice packs are sometimes used to alleviate headaches. 

3. This math book is full of equations for students to practice. 

4. The expert in astrology went to work every day to study rocks and soil. 

5. This math problem is tricky, so be careful not to err. 

6. The permanence of the flood was gone in a couple of days. 

7. After months of planning, the inadvertent decision to sell the company was carried 

out. 

8. The Earth and other planets revolve around the sun. 

9. Two flat tires disrupted our drive to the countryside. 

10. What differentiates Dan from his brother is Dan’s unmatched love of sports. 


The North Star 

Among the multitude of stars in the universe, there are a couple that are of great 
importance to people on Earth. The sun, of course, is one of them. The other is known as 
Polaris, the North Star. Polaris is special because it is the only star that always appears to 
be in the same place in the sky. Therefore, Polaris is a great compass. When people in the 
northern hemisphere of Earth look toward Polaris, they can be certain that they are facing 
north. The permanence of Polaris in the north sky has helped countless people find their 
destinations. 

Before the invention of modern navigation tools, mariners relied on Polaris. From the 
top of their hulls, sailors would look for Polaris to figure out their place at sea. They figured 
out the angle between the star and the horizon to determine their latitude. As long as the 
equations weren’t erroneous, the results were very reliable. Polaris also let sailors determine 
North, South, East, and West. By knowing directions and their location, mariners could easily 
navigate their ships. 

To those who sail at night, volatile storms and dark clouds were more than nuisances. 
They could disrupt entire journeys by blocking the view of Polaris. A captain could err and 
make an inadvertent wrong turn. The ship could become stranded at sea, and the frantic 
captain would have no way to improvise to get the ship back on the right course. The mariner’s 
fears wouldn’t be soothed until the clouds cleared and Polaris came back into view. Even today, 
sailors sometimes opt to navigate by using Polaris on clear nights. 

It’s not difficult to differentiate Polaris from other stars. The Big Dipper, a constellation 
that is well known in astrology, appears to revolve around Polaris. The handle of the Big 
Dipper always points to the North Star. When people get lost, it’s comforting to know that 
their problems can be alleviated by looking at the sky. 


PART o Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Even today, sailors opt to improvise by using Polaris on clear nights. 


2. A ship could become stranded if a captain erred and made an inadvertent wrong turn. 


3. People who are lost can be alleviated by gazing up at a frantic sky. 


4. Volatile storms were more than nuisances because they disrupted entire journeys. 


5. It is not difficult to differentiate Polaris from the multitude of other stars in the 

universe. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. How did mariners determine their latitude from the top of their hulls? 


2. What has the permanence of Polaris done for people? 


3. How did sailors figure out latitude? 


4. What well-known constellation in astrology revolves around Polaris? 


5. On a cloudy night, when would a mariner finally feel soothed? 




UNIT 






ardllOUS lard3uas] udj 

When something is arduous, it demands great effort or labor. 

-* The explorers began their arduous hike up the steep mountain. 

attain [aiem] v. 

To attain something means to gain or achieve it, often after a lot of effort. 

-* in two more years, I will attain my high school diploma. 

Coexist Ikouigzistl * 

To coexist with something means to exist with it in the same time and place. 

— Our pets coexist at our home with little or no problems. 

conceive ikansi vj 

To conceive something means to be able to imagine or believe it. 

— * The child could not conceive the actual size of the Earth. 

dubious (d/u bissl adj 

When something or someone is dubious, they are not considered honest. 

-* The police thought that the man’s description of the crime was dubious. 

egO |i gou] n. 

An ego is a person’s sense of their own worth. 

-* Kelly's ego made her think that she was some kind of a superhero. 

elastic lilaestik) adl 

Elastic is a rubber that stretches when it is pulled. 

-♦ He attached the elastic bungee to his legs before he jumped off the platform. 
endeavor lendevarl n. 

An endeavor is an attempt to do something, especially something new or original. 
— * The company’s new advertising endeavor ended in a horrible failure. 

engrave [mgreivl v. 

To engrave means to cut a design or words into the surface of something. 

— * The couple engraved their names onto the old pine tree. 

excavate [ekskaveitl V. 

To excavate means to dig on land and remove dirt to look for something. 

-» The team wishes to excavate the site in hopes of finding fossils. 


UNIT 



jagged ld3aegid) adi 

When something is jagged, it has a tough, uneven shape or edge. 

— * The swimmer was hurt when he fell on the jagged rocks. 

locale lloukael] n. 

A locale is a small area or place where something specific happens. 

— The spa was the perfect locale for my mother to relax and enjoy her vacation. 

mold [mould] n 

A mold is a hollow container that is used to make certain shapes. 

— Using a cupcake mold will ensure that they come out just right. 

Outright lautraitj ad/. 

When something is outright, it is open and direct. 

— * Everyone knew that the boy’s story was an outright lie. 

periphery ipar. ran] n . 

The periphery of an area, place, or thing is the edge of it. 

-* A beautiful floral pattern is on the periphery of the stationery. 

plaster [plaestarl n. 

Plaster is a smooth paste that gets hard when it dries. 

-» He used plaster to fill in the cracks in the old walls. 

shovel [/Avail n. 

A shovel is a tool with a long handle that is used for digging. 

-* The boy grabbed his shovel and got all of the snow off of the sidewalk. 

skeletal [skelatl] ad; 

When something is skeletal, it relates to bones in the body. 

— We studied the skeletal system in anatomy class. 

terrestrial ite^stnai] adi 

If something is terrestrial, it relates to Earth. 

-* There are billions of terrestrial life forms. 

vicious |vi|as] adi 

When something or someone is vicious, they are violent and cruel. 

-* The vicious dog tried to bite the small child. 


UTS 



Exercise 1 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. He chose to make his sculpture out of a smooth paste that hardens when it dries. 


2. Our violent an d cruel boss forced us to work twelve hours in a row without a break. 


3. The race was close, so it was difficult to determine an open and direct winner. 


4. This is the perfect small area w here something happens for a picnic. 

5. Truck drivers often stay awake for many hours to make their difficult a nd tiring drives. 


6. The salesperson’s claim seemed quite dishonest, unsa fe, and unreliable. 


7. Mike was thrilled to pass the driving test and gain his driver’s license. 


8. Physics on the moon are much different than Earth - relate d physics. 

9. The prisoners were unable to imagine a nd believe a plot for escaping the jail. 

10. To plant these seeds, I will first need to buy a tool used for digging. 


Exercise 2 


Choose the answer that best fits the question. 


1. What might a person with a large ego say? 
a. “I am the best.” b. “I can’t do it.” 

2. Which is likely to be jagged? 

a. A doll b. A cliff 

3. Which is likely to be excavated? 

a. Water b. A sofa 

4. What is part of the skeletal system? 

a. The skin b. The tongue 

5. What is an example of an endeavor? 
a. Waking up 

c. Making coffee 


c. “I’m hungry.” 

d. “I’m sorry." 

c. A cloud 

d. A pillow 

c. A computer 

d. The ground 

c. The skull 

d. The fingernails 

b. Inventing a new machine 
d. Combing your hair 


Exercise 3 


Write C if the italicized word is used correctly. Write I if the word is used incorrectly. 

1. The alarm clock was set to endeavor every morning at seven A.M. 

2. Experts excavated the site in hopes of finding an ancient city buried underneath. 

3. Everyone loved to hug and kiss the vicious baby. 

A. The elephant is one of the largest terrestrial animals still in existence. 

5. The dubious chocolate ice cream is a favorite treat at the restaurant. 

6. The concerned owner built a fence along the periphery of the parking lot. 

7. Preparing for the difficult test was an arduous task for the nervous students. 

8. You’ll need a shovel if you plan on getting on top of the roof. 

9. The delicate flower was a jagged addition to the arrangement. 

10. Children cheered as the circus clown attained balloons into different shapes. 

11. He filled the ugly holes in the ceiling with plaster. 

12. At the factory, the workers made screws by pouring liquid metal into a mold. 

13. I hope she is able to engrave all of her homework before school tomorrow. 

14. I cannot conceive the reason why he would act in such a mean way. 

15. The small fights and arguments eventually led to an outright war. 

16. When the glass vase fell to the floor, we heard an elastic sound. 

17. She bought a cute new ego from the pet store today. 

18. We need to choose a locale for Brian’s birthday party. 

19. Derrick bought a skeletal from that new clothing store downtown. 

20 . 


Although they were rivals, the stores were able to coexist in the same neighborhood. 


The Fossil Hunters 


Tim and Dean were great fossil hunters. They were the very best at finding dinosaur 
bones. Although Tim and Dean were quite similar, they were outright enemies. The two men 
got into vicious arguments all the time. They couldn’t coexist peacefully because their egos 
were too large. Tim thought he was the best fossil hunter, while Dean was sure that he was 
much better than Tim. 

One day, Tim was searching for fossils on the periphery of the city when he discovered a 
huge bone. He had never seen anything like it! He took his shovel and carefully excavated 
the dirt around it. As he dug, he uncovered more jagged bones. He realized that he had 
found an entire dinosaur skeleton! Tim couldn’t conceive a plan to remove the huge 
skeleton all by himself. Such an endeavor would be too arduous. He needed help. He 
tried to think of people who would be capable of helping him remove the skeleton without 
breaking it. The only person Tim could think of was Dean, his enemy. 

Tim ran into the city to find Dean. Tim found him and said, “Dean, I’ve found the skeletal 
remains of a huge terrestrial animal. But I can’t get the skeleton out by myself. Will you 
please help me? 

Dean thought that Tim’s claim might be dubious. He replied, “If you’re serious about the 
skeleton. I’ll help." 

Tim excitedly showed Dean the skeleton’s locale. They worked together to carefully remove 
each bone. And to keep the bones together, they tied them with elastic strips. When they 
were finished, they had attained a perfect skeleton. They used plaster to make a mold of 
the dinosaur’s skull. They engraved their initials into it and gave it to the curator of a local 
museum. 

Tim and Dean found out that they could work very well together. ^ 

They decided to end their feud and become friends. By combining 
their talents, the men became even greater than they were before. 



UNIT 


Reading Comprehension 



PART o Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Tim and Dean were outright enemies who got into vicious arguments. 


2. Tim and Dean removed the jagged bones and used elastic to attain them. 


3. Tim couldn’t conceive a plan to remove the bones because the endeavor would be 

too arduous. 


4. Dean thought that Tim’s ego might be dubious. 


5. When Tim excavated the land, he uncovered many engraved bones. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. Why couldn’t Tim and Dean coexist peacefully? 


2. What did Tim use his shovel to do? 


3. What was Tim doing on the periphery of the city? 


4. What did the fossil hunters do to the plaster mold before they gave it to the curator? 


5. What did Dean say before he went to the locale of the terrestrial animal’s skeletal remains? 




UNIT 


Ward List 



absurd [absardl adj. 

If something or someone is absurd, they are ridiculous. 

— ► That group of people making animal noises sounds completely absurd. 

anemia [ani.rrua] n. 

Anemia is a blood condition that causes a person to be pale and tired. 

-» When she first developed anemia, she became tired often. 

aristocracy [aerastdkrasi] n. 

The aristocracy is the highest class of people in certain societies. 

— * Most members of the aristocracy were very well-fed. 

aristocrat taristakrset] n. 

An aristocrat is a person who is of the highest class in certain societies. 

-* The aristocrat did not need a job because his family was wealthy. 

attire [atatar] n. 

Attire is nice or special clothing. 

-* Everyone wore their best attire to the president’s daughter’s wedding. 

craze [kreiz] n. 

A craze is a brief and popular activity or object. 

-» Wearing bright red socks was a craze when I was in high school. 

enlarge [enldrd3l V. 

To enlarge something means to make it bigger. 

-» The classrooms were enlarged over the summer to make room for more students. 

excess [ekses] n. 

An excess is an amount of something that is more than needed or wanted. 

-♦ Because it never got cold that winter, many stores had an excess of coats. 

feminine [femamn] adj. 

If something is feminine, then it has qualities that are commonly related to women. 
-» Many of the older people thought his long hair made him look too feminine. 

hallmark [hd:lmd:rk] n. 

A hallmark is a unique characteristic of something. 

— » Different types of pasta and tomato sauces are hallmarks of Italian food. 


UNIT 



pad Ipsedl n. 

A pad is a thick piece of soft material used to protect or clean things. 

-* Football players wear shoulder pads to keep them safe. 

predominant Ipridomsngnt) ad/. 

If something is predominant, then it is the most important, common or strongest. 
-* Before cars were invented, horses were the predominant method of travel. 

reputable [repjatabal) adj. 

If someone or something is reputable, then they have a good reputation. 

-* The service from the less than reputable company made her angry. 

rouge tru 3] n. 

Rouge is a red powder or cream used as makeup on the cheeks or lips. 

-* Even when she didn’t wear rouge, her cheeks appeared red. 

signify [signafai] v. 

To signify means to be a symbol of something. 

-*■ A red octagon is used to signify to stop. 

Strap [straep] n. 

A strap is a thin long piece of fabric used to fasten, carry, or hold something. 

— ► She put the strap of her purse over her shoulder and walked out of the door. 

tangle [tasQgal) n. 

A tangle is something or many things twisted together. 

-» The laces of his shoes were in such a tangle that he could not untie them. 

vanity [vaenati] n. 

Vanity is excessive pride or love of one’s own appearance or things one has done. 
-* Her vanity won 't allow her to pass a mirror without looking at herself. 

vie [vai] V. 

To vie for something means to compete against others for it. 

-» The three boys vied for the prize in the chemistry contest. 

vulgar [vAlgar) adj. 

If something or someone is vulgar, then they are rude or lacking in style. 

-* Her vulgar behavior got her into trouble with her parents. 


CM 

| 



Exercise I 


Choose the one that is similar in meaning to the given word. 


1. vanity 
a. truck 

b. pride 

c. dusk 

d. shelf 

2. aristocrat 
a. noble 

b. painting 

c. weather 

d. angel 

3. pad 
a. pocket 

b. cushion 

c. alley 

d. subject 

4. vulgar 
a. young 

b. faint 

c. short 

d. rude 

5. predominant 
a. mysterious 

b. gradual 

c. superior 

d. parallel 

6. attire 
a. clothing 

b. wheel 

c. labor 

d. smell 

7. tangle 
a. knot 

b. tint 

c. slope 

d. spice 

8. enlarge 
a. fight 

b. rent 

c. greet 

d. swell 

9. absurd 
a. hungry 

b. round 

c. funny 

d. polite 

10. signify 
a. scribble 

b. symbolize 

c. consult 

d. remove 


Exercise 2 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. I broke the long piece of fabric that goes over my shoulder on my purse. 


2. Matt’s female appearances made everyone take notice of him immediately. 


3. You must wear proper clothing if you plan on attending the formal dance. 


4. He works for a well-resp ected firm downtown. 


5. The soft materials in his helmet will protect him if he should fall and strike his head 
on an object. 


Exercise 3 


Fill in the blanks with the correct words from the word bank. 

strap aristocracy excess vie 

feminine rouge hallmark reputable 


craze 

anemia 


Beth’s 1 had made her face lose a lot of its color. 

She decided to use some 2 to make her cheeks look less pale. 

All the girls had to own that style of purse with the yellow 3 . 

But Pam knew that it was just another 4 . 

lohn was not like the other members of the 5 . 

Though he had a(n) 6 of money, he gave it to help people. 

Will had to 7 with other students for the respect of the teacher. 

However, once he became a(n) 8 student, he stopped studying. 

Some people thought the musician’s lipstick made him look 9 . 

But others felt that this 10 is what made him so popular. 


Exercise 4 


Write C if the italicized word is used correctly. Write i if the word is used incorrectly. 

1. We all felt that the new office rules were completely absurd. 

2. The bushes were tangled with vine. 

3. Losing your memory as you get older is called anemia. 

4. A strong smell is the hallmark of a good cheese. 

5. It was easy to get lost in the big house. Its many hallways made it seem like a craze. 

6. The local vanity asked people to give old clothing and money. 

7. After putting on too much rouge, she looked like a clown. 

8. Everyone may attend excess those who have not finished their assignment. 

9. Talking to people with food in your mouth is not only gross. It is also quite vulgar. 

10. Because he was an aristocrat, he had to wash dishes in order to make enough money. 

S3 


Dressed to Excess 



If you traveled back in time to the 1700s in Europe, you would laugh when you saw how 
the aristocracy dressed. Soon you’d realize, though, that the aristocrats of Europe were 
very serious abouttheir appearance. 

The predominant style in women’s attire was enormous 
dresses. They were often three times larger than 
the wearer. Ladies even used pads to enlarge 
the appearance of their hips and shoulders. On 
the other extreme, the aristocratic women made 
their waists appear extremely thin. It took several maids 
stretching fabric and pulling straps in order to get a 
lady’s waist to the proper thinness. These ladies 
could barely breathe and often fainted. 

Pale skin was also a craze, yet this too was 
done in excess. One could not simply be pale. 

Instead, she needed to look as if she had 
anemia. In order to look paler, ladies actually 
cut themselves daily, so they would 
bleed. 

The hairstyles, however, 
were the hallmark of 
women’s fashion. These 
stood a meter high on the 
ladies’ heads. The columns 
of hair were a ridiculous tangle 
of wigs, jewels, flowers, and even 
stuffed birds. 

Men’s fashion was similarly absurd. Today it 
would probably seem very feminine. Reputable men 
wore wigs of long curly hair. Their shoes had large 
soles or high heels so that they could walk high 
above the filth on the streets. Furthermore, just like 
the ladies, the men wore lipstick and put rouge on 
their cheeks. 

Their clothes were brightly colored, often purple 
and pink. They were made from the finest of fabrics and 
decorated with jewels and lace. The men vied with one 
another to see who wore the more expensive clothes, for the 
clothing signified his wealth and status. 

Both men and women spent huge amounts of money and time 
on how they looked. Though such vanity would seem vulgar today, 
three hundred years from now, the fashions of our time might also 
seem completely ridiculous. 


Reading Comprehension 


H 


PART Q Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Ladies used pads to enlarge their hips and shoulders. 


2. Only the ladies wore lipstick and rouge. 


3. The aristocracy’s vanity would seem vulgar today. 


4. Women’s hair was a tangle of wigs, straps, flowers, and stuffed birds. 


5. Men’s fashion was absurd and feminine. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. What was the predominant style in women’s attire? 


2. What did the clothing of an aristocrat signify? 


3. What craze was done in such excess that women had to look like they had anemia? 


4. What was the hallmark of women’s fashion? 


5. When reputable men vied with each other, what were they trying to see? 




UNIT 



— 


Word List 


attic [aetik] n. 

An attic is a room just below a house’s roof. 

-» There were two windows in their attic. 

chunk [tjArjkl n. 

A chunk is a thick, solid piece of something. 

-♦ When they broke open the rock, they saw it was filled with chunks of gold. 

Civic [sivik] adj. 

If something is civic, then it is related to a town or city, especially its government. 
-♦ Most of the important civic buildings are located downtown. 

descent idisem] n. 

A descent is a movement downwards. 

-* During the space shuttle’s descent, the Earth became larger and larger. 

din [d in] n 

A din is loud, unpleasant, and extended noise. 

-» The din of the rusty machinery made the factory a horrible place to work. 

dissatisfy [disssetisfail v. 

To dissatisfy someone means to fail to please them. 

-* He was dissatisfied with his meal. 

fuss [fAs] n. 

A fuss is excited or annoyed behavior that is not useful in any way. 

-» The child made an awful fuss because she didn’t want to go to bed. 

gourmet (guermei) adj. 

If food is gourmet, then it is nicer and more expensive than regular food. 

— * In order to get a gourmet meal, you have to eat at an expensive restaurant. 

hence (hens] adv. 

If something happens hence, then it happens as a result of something. 

-» John forgot the key. Hence, we couldn ’t open the door. 

intrinsic [intrinsikj odj. 

If something is intrinsic, then it is related to the basic nature of that thing. 

— Paper money has no intrinsic value. It is useful simply because society says it is. 




kettle iketii n. 

A kettle is a large metal pot used for boiling liquids or cooking food. 

— The soup was being cooked in a large kettle. 

ministry liWnistri] n 

A ministry is a government department. 

-* The Ministry of Trade is responsible for taxing imports and exports. 

ordeal lordial) n 

An ordeal is a bad experience. 

— * Driving in the snowstorm was an ordeal she’d never forget. 

Outspoken [autspoukkanl ad/ 

If someone is outspoken, then they are not afraid to say what they think. 

-» She was an outspoken critic about the new banking laws. 

overwork louvcvwark) v 

To overwork someone means to make them tired with too much work. 

-* After working for three weeks with only one day of rest. Judy was overworked. 

particular lpactik|alar| adj 

If something is particular, then it is a single, important part of a group of things. 
-* The dress shop didn ’t have the particular dress she was looking for. 

pungent IpAiidsantl udj 

If something is pungent, then it tastes or smells strong and sharp. 

-* The garlic made the soup taste so pungent that the chef wouldn’t serve it. 

snore (snarl > 

To snore means to make a loud noise each time a sleeping person breathes. 

-» It was impossible to get to sleep because my husband snored. 

SOUndly Isauridlij adv. 

If something is done soundly, then it is done in the best or most complete way. 
-* The nearest opponent was ten meters behind. She won the race soundly. 

superintendent [su penntendanll n. 

A superintendent is a person who runs a certain department or building. 

-* The superintendent decided to close the schools because of the weather. 


Exercise 


Choose the one that is opposite in meaning to the given word. 

1. din 



a. home 

b. supper 

c. silence 

d. ghost 

2. 

outspoken 
a. quiet 

b. little 

c. inside 

d. bright 

3. 

pungent 
a. hurt 

b. mild 

c. kind 

d. young 

4. 

civic 

a. swollen 

b. happy 

c. private 

d. mature 

5. 

descent 
a. climb 

b. odor 

c. plate 

d. bill 

6. 

attic 

a. mouse 

b. square 

c. number 

d. cellar 

7. 

fuss 

a. complaint 

b. calm 

c. argument 

d. commerce 

8. 

dissatisfy 
a. cleanse 

b. leap 

c. trim 

d. please 

9. 

overwork 
a. relax 

b. understand 

c. select 

d. repair 

10. 

chunk 
a. bridge 

b. song 

c. whole 

d. lamp 


Exercise Z 


Choose the one that is similar in meaning to the given word. 


1. 

intrinsic 
a. logical 

b. natural 

c. usable 

d. 

fragile 

2. 

ministry 
a. porch 

b. coast 

c. agency 

d. 

bush 

3 

snore 
a. grunt 

b. fly 

c. rain 

d. 

call 

4. 

kettle 
a. cup 

b. bucket 

c. pot 

d. 

pan 

5. 

superintendent 
a. diner 

b. manager 

c. sunrise 

d. 

beginning 

6. 

gourmet 
a. delicious 

b. comfortable 

c. legitimate 

d. 

pleasant 

7. 

soundly 
a. slowly 

b. totally 

c. loudly 

d. 

briefly 

8. 

hence 
a. also 

b. instead 

c. still 

d. 

thus 

9. 

ordeal 
a. problem 

b. direction 

c. bargain 

d. 

request 

10. 

particular 
a. moody 

b. beaten 

c. exact 

d. 

secret 


Exercise 3 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. The movement down ward from the mountain was because it had started to rain. 

2. The berries were not ripe when he tried them. Their taste was extremely sharp and strong. 

3. A thick, solid piece of dirt was stuck underneath the wagon’s tire. 

A. Please share your suggestions with the department leader so she can address them. 

5. After toiling for hours in the hot sun, the prisoners were tired from too much work. 

6. For her birthday, her boyfriend took her out for a fancy and expe nsive dinner. 

7. The room just below the roof is on the third floor of the house. 

8. She was respected by many because she was not afraid to say what she thought. 

9. He always dreamed of getting a job with one of the departments o f government. 

10. Getting lost in the desert would have been quite an awf ul experience . 


Exercise 4 


Write C if the italicized word is used correctly. Write I if the word is used incorrectly 

1. The caffeine in the tea gave him more energy. Hence, he was more alert. 

2. Mom, something smells good in the kitchen. I can’t wait for din. 

3. The cat waited outside the door arid made a fuss until someone let her inside the 

house. 

4. See that politician over there? He works in the Ministry of Truth. 

5. The need to protect one’s family is an intrinsic quality found in many animals. 


The Butler’s Bad Day 

The Superintendent of Civic Projects was a busy man. He worked every day of the week 
and had fancy parties at his house every night. 

However, if there was someone busier than him, it was his butler. He worked all day 
organizing the superintendent’s parties and then cleaned up after them late at night. 

Hence, while the superintendent slept soundly, snoring loudly in his bed, the butler was 
still awake. 

Sadly, though the butler was always overworked, his profession’s intrinsic nature 
demanded he never be outspoken. Therefore, his employer never knew the butler hadn’t 
slept for several days. On any day the butler might make a mistake. 

One day, the superintendent said, “This particular party is important. People from the 
ministry are coming. Everything must be perfect.” 

The butler began preparing at once. First he went to the attic to get more chairs and 
tables. But on his descent, he realized he needed to make the food. A gourmet dinner was 
necessary for such a party. He boiled water in a kettle for soup and chopped some beef into 
chunks, lust as he was starting the soup, he remembered that he had to sweep the veranda. 
As he was sweeping the veranda, he realized that he had to clean the sauna. 

By this time, the first guests had arrived. The veranda was still dirty. There were not 
enough chairs for the guests to sit on, and the soup tasted too pungent. Some guests were 
dissatisfied. They started to make a fuss, and the party was filled with a din of complaints. 

The superintendent’s party was a disaster. He wondered why his butler had made so 
many mistakes. At last, the butler admitted to being exhausted. His boss felt pity for the 
butler. He had no idea the butler was so tired. He said, “You should have told me earlier, 
then we could have avoided this whole ordeal.” 


5 







PART O Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The Superintendent of Civic Projects cleaned late at night; hence, he was busier than 

his butler. 


2. Though the butler was outspoken, his job’s intrinsic nature made him never become 

overworked. 


3. This particular party was important because people from the ministry were coming. 


4. The butler boiled caffeine in a kettle and chopped beef into chunks. 


5. The soup for the gourmet dinner tasted too pungent. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. How was the butler while the superintendent slept soundly and snored? 


2. On his descent from the attic, what did the butler realize? 


3. How could the butler have avoided the entire ordeal? 


4. just as he started the soup, what did the butler remember? 


5. Why was the party filled with a din of unhappy guests making a fuss? 








alternate [5 itameit] * 

To alternate means to switch back and forth between two things. 

-» The best exercise alternates muscle and heart strengthening. 

apologetic [apalad^etikl adj. 

If someone is apologetic, they are sorry about something. 

-* The boy felt apologetic after losing his sister’s favorite toy. 

benign Jjinain] adj. 

If something or someone is benign, they do not hurt anyone. 

-* Many spiders look scary, but most are actually benign. 

char [tjar] V. 

To char means to burn something so that it turns black. 

-* While Frank went inside to get the mustard, he accidentally charred the hotdogs. 

Clarify [klaerafai] v. 

To clarify means to make something easier to understand by explaining it. 

-► Drew tried to clarify all the functions of Michelle’s new computer. 

distress [distres] n. 

Distress is the feeling of being upset or worried. 

— * Failing a class caused the student a lot of distress. 

dogged Idol )gid] adj. 

When someone’s actions are dogged, they try hard to continue something. 

— > Her dad bought her a new jacket after her dogged requests for one. 

ensue (msu ] v. 

To ensue means to happen after something. 

-» After a few minutes of lightening, thunder ensued. 

gasp [gasspl v. 

To gasp means to make a noise by quickly breathing in when surprised. 

-* John always gasps when watching a scary movie. 

negotiate imgoujieit] v. 

To negotiate means to try to make an agreement through discussion. 

-» Mario and Joe took a long time negotiating the contract between the companies. 




I 

overdose [duvordous] n. 

An overdose is an instance of taking or having too much of something. 

-* John’s skin was burned from an overdose of sunshine. 

perSUSSion [p3/-swei3an] n. 

Persuasion is the act of making someone do or believe something. 

— The persuasion of his argument convinced the customer to buy the laptop. 

relay imiei] n. 

A relay is a race in which teams of runners or swimmers race against each other. 
-* Jerry was the fastest on his team, so he ran the last part of the relay. 

reluctance [rilAktans] n. 

Reluctance is a feeling of not wanting to do something. 

-* Jesse took out the trash with great reluctance. 

restate [ri steit] v. 

To restate something means to say it again or in a different way. 

-» Mrs. Jones restated the test question to the class. 

sesame [sesami] n. 

Sesame is an herb that is grown for its small seeds and its oil. 

-* / used the buns with the sesame seeds on them. 

Sip [sip] v. 

To sip something means to drink a small amount at a time. 

-* Liza relaxed on the beach, sipping fruit juice through a straw. 

verge [vard3l n. 

The verge is the point at which something is about to happen. 

-» Joan was on the verge of leaving her house when the phone rang. 

wary [wfcsri] adj. 

If someone is wary, they are cautious or mistrusting. 

-* She was wary of going to school because she hadn’t done her homework. 

waver [weivar] V. 

To waver is to be unable to decide between two choices. 

— * / wavered between eating the apple or the cake for a snack. 





Exercise 1 


Choose the answer that best fits the question. 


1. An overdose of something is 
a. expensive 
c. not true 


b. too much 
d. not enough 


2. What might cause someone to gasp? 
a. Falling asleep 
c. Eating too much 


b. Getting a surprise party 
d. Laying on a bed 


3. What is something that can be sipped? 
a. A plate of rice 
c. A glass of soda 


b. A bowl of fruit 
d. A piece of chicken 


4. If you knew that a snake was benign, you would probably feel like this: 
a. Fine b. Scared 

c. Angry d. Hungry 


5. She felt apologetic about . 

a. calling her friend back 
c. forgetting her friend’s birthday 


b. walking home alone 
d. giving to charity 


If people are negotiating, what are they doing? 

a. Deciding on something b. Arguing about a silly topic 

c. Meeting for the first time d. Going on a date 


7. What does charred meat look like? 
a. It is raw and not cooked enough, 
c. It is black on the outside. 


b. It is cooked perfectly, 
d. It is red on the outside. 


8 . If someone does something with reluctance, how do they feel? 
a. Excited b. Unwilling 

c. Frightened d. Nervous 


9. What might ensue after someone has misplaced a lot of money? 
a. A worried search b. A visit from the doctor 

c. The arrival of a friend d. A party 


10. What might cause a teacher distress? 

a. All the students doing their homework b. Her students always arriving on time 
c. Her students not coming to class d. Her students all passing an exam 


Exercise 2 


Choose the one that is 

similar in meaning to the given word. 


1. reluctance 
a. loneliness 

b. hesitance 

c. dependence 

d. lateness 

2. apologetic 
a. unsure 

b. lucky 

c. sorry 

d. pitiful 

3. char 
a. bum 

b. cook 

c. on fire 

d. dark 

4. relay 
a. plate 

b. race 

c. desert 

d. snack 

5. persuasion 
a. talent 

b. influence 

c. ripeness 

d. climate 

6. restate 
a. decide 

b. discuss 

c. lose 

d. summarize 

7. gasp 
a. breathe 

b. announce 

c. mean 

d. drink 

8. negotiate 
a. decide 

b. discuss 

c. fair 

d. ask 

9. sesame 
a. container 

b. food 

c. an animal 

d. shell 

10. verge 
a. edge 

b. done 

c. plan 

d. last 

Choose the one that is 

opposite in meaning to the given word. 


1. benign 
a. quick 

b. painful 

c. harmful 

d. warm 

2. dogged 
a. working 

b. arrival 

c. flexible 

d. serious 

3. clarify 
a. confuse 

b. clean 

c. do again 

d. order 

4. waver 
a. river 

b. determine 

c. chili 

d. solid 

5. distress 
a. thoughtful 

b. reasonable 

c. peace 

d. surprising 

6. sip 
a. gulp 

b. laugh 

c. provide 

d. keep 

7. alternate 
a. divide 

b. move 

c. travel 

d. continue 

8. overdose 
a. lack 

b. mixture 

c. teacher 

d. cottage 

9. wary 
a. tired 

b. mad 

c. small 

d. trusting 

10. ensue 

a. come before 

b. safe 

c. punish 

d. ask about 




A Bet 

Russell finished running a relay and joined his friend Becky in the cafeteria. He asked, 
“What’s for lunch?” 

“Sesame chicken. It’s OK, except the meat’s charred. Oh, and watch out for the chili 
peppers,” Becky said. 

“Chilies don’t bother me!” said Russell. 

“My stepmother says you should be careful with them,” replied Becky. 

An argument ensued about eating chilies. “Chilies aren’t so bad. I bet I can take more 
bites of this chili than you,” Russell said. 

Becky was wary of eating the pepper. Despite her reluctance, she didn’t want to say no 
to the bet. She wavered about whether to do it or not. She negotiated the details. “What 
will the winner get?” she asked. 

“The loser has to carry the winner’s books for a year! I’ll even let you go first.” 

Becky replied, “Fine, but to clarify, you’ll carry my books for the entire school year, right?” 

Russell restated the agreement, “That’s right I’ll carry your books all year if you 

win— which you won’t!” 

His dogged persuasion convinced her. The chili looked benign, but Becky knew it could 
cause a lot of pain. She bit the bottom of the pepper. Surprisingly, she felt nothing. 

“My turn,” said Russell. He bit the middle of the chili. Immediately, he seemed to be in 
distress. He gasped and his face alternated between brave and pained expressions. He 
experienced an overdose of spice. He was on the verge of tears and finally let out a horrible 
cry. 

“Take this,” said Becky, handing him her drink. 

“That was awful!” he said, continuing to sip from the glass. 

That night, Becky researched chilies. The next day she said in an apologetic voice, “I read 
that the hot part of chilies is in the middle, where the seeds are. I’m sorry— I feel like I cheated 
by going first.” 

Russell was relieved, not only did he learn something new about chilies, but he learned 
that Becky was a good friend. 






Reading Comprehension 



PART O Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Becky was having charred sesame chicken for lunch. 


2. The argument ensued because Becky wavered about whether to run the relay. 


3. After Russell and Becky negotiated the bet, they decided that whoever lost would 

carry the winner’s books for a year. 


4. Russell was wary about eating the pepper even if it looked benign. 


5. Becky was apologetic because of her choice to take the first bite of the pepper. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. Why did Becky take the bet in spite of her reluctance? 


2. Why did Russell have to restate the terms of the bet? 


3. How did Becky know that Russell was in distress and had an overdose of spice after he ate 
the pepper? 


4. Who warned Becky about chilies? 


5. What did Russell do after he ate the chili? 


cn 





ashore [afar] adv. 

If something goes ashore, it goes from water to the land. 

— After a long day of fishing, Glen pulled his boat ashore, so it wouldn’t float away. 

contradict Ikdntradikt] * 

To contradict means to state the opposite of what someone else has. 

— * Ken was always fighting with his little sister because she kept contradicting him. 

Counterpart [kauntarpo /l) n. 

A counterpart is something that is very similar to something else in what it does. 
-* Our manager will meet our rival company’s counterpart later today. 

devoid [divoidl ad]. 

When something or someone is devoid of a thing, they are missing it. 

-* The movie was devoid of any violence, so it was a perfect movie for the family. 

diverge ldlva:rd3l V. 

To diverge is to become different or to follow a different direction. 

-* The road diverged into two paths that led to our houses. 

elude [iiu.dl v. 

To elude means to avoid being caught by something. 

-* The rabbit eluded the wolf by hiding in a bush. 



embryo [embriou] n. 

An embryo is a human or animal that is still growing inside its mother. 

-* Some doctors say that what a mother eats has a big effect on her embryo. 

fend [fend] V. 

To fend off something means to push it away and avoid it. 

-* Dave spent all night fending off bugs instead of sleeping. 

fictitious [fiktifas] adj. 

When something is fictitious, it is made up and not real. 

— ► The author said that the characters in her book were completely fictitious. 

gazette [gazet] n. 

A gazette is a newspaper. 

-* Alice wants to write for a gazette when she's older. 



« 





homogeneous [h6um9cl3;:ni8s] adj. 

If something is homogeneous, it is made up of things which are all the same. 
— * All of the houses on Victor’s block were boring and homogenous. 

Obstruct labstrAkt] v. 

To obstruct something means to get in its way. 

-♦ The car broke down on the road and obstructed traffic for hours. 

plunge :pl/vnd3) v. 

To plunge means to move down into something very quickly. 

-* The water in the pool was very cold, but the boy plunged in anyway. 

prolong lproul5:r)l v. 

To prolong means to make something last for a longer time. 

-+ Sandy walked slowly across the beach, trying to prolong her lunch break. 

publicize [pAblasaiz] v. 

To publicize is to make something get a lot of attention. 

— * The company publicized the job positions in the newspaper. 

Sparse [spa:rs| adj. 

If something is sparse, there is not very much of it in a big area. 

-* Rob spent Saturday in his garden, clearing out the sparse weeds. 

surplus [saxplAsl n. 

A surplus is an extra amount of something. 

-» The store sold their surplus items on sale. 

theorize [ei:eraizl v. 

To theorize means to develop ideas about something. 

-* They enjoyed theorizing about how things worked. 

verify [verafai] V. 

To verify means to find out if something is true. 

-* Julian called the movie theater to verify that the movie started at nine. 

vigorous [vigaras] adj. 

If something or someone is vigorous, they use a lot of energy. 

-♦ Henry uses vigorous exercise to keep himself in shape. 



Exercise 1 


Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. What animal can survive ashore? 

a. A dolphin b. An alligator c. A shark d. A goldfish 

2. How can someone devoid of any happiness be described? 

a. Lazy b. Content c. Depressed d. Humorous 

3. How do turtles elude predators? 

a. They walk fast. b. They hide in their shells, 

c. They have sharp teeth. d. They dig a hole in the ground. 

4. What is something that people can plunge into? 

a. A school b. A car c. A cup d. A pool 

5. Which of the following is NOT used to obstruct sunlight? 

a. Sunglasses b. Curtains c. A telescope d. A baseball cap 


Exercise Z 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. Human undeveloped babies grow inside the mother for up to nine months. 

2. The concert was made well-known over the radio. 

3. Ms. Hiller had a spare amount of clothes, so she gave them to charity. 

4. The philosopher developed an idea about what happens to good people. 

5. The principal called Alex’s house to ma ke certain he was sick at home. 

6. Margaret collected shells that had come from the wat er to Land on the beach. 

7. Elliot moved down into the water as soon as he arrived at the beach. 

8. Oscar hid behind a tree to not get ca ught b y the bully who was chasing him. 

9. The beads in the box were a ll the same. 


10. The amount of hair he had on his head was a small amount. 



Exercise 3 


Choose the one that is similar in meaning to the given word. 

1. prolong 


a. show 

b. ensure 

c. extend 

d. destine 

2. fictitious 
a. invented 

b. realistic 

c. wonderful 

d. unseen 

3. contradict 
a. move away 

b. disagree 

c. think about 

d. describe 

4. homogeneous 
a. same 

b. weak 

c. unrelated 

d. barred 

5. vigorous 
a. untamed 

b. skilled 

c. qualified 

d. energetic 


Write C if the italicized word is used correctly. Write I if the word is used incorrectly. 

1. I obstructed my brother from coming in by locking the door. 

2. I ate a light snack to fend off my hunger. 

3. The river diverged into three different channels. 

4. Sheila publicized her party over the Internet. She didn’t want a lot of people to know 

about it. 

5. I viewed this morning’s gazette to find out about today’s weather. 

6. Jason always contradicted what his friend said. They agreed about everything. 

7. Andrew verified that his friends were coming to his house, so his mom could make 

enough food for dinner. 

8. Did you remember to take the hot pan off of the counterparti 

9. Class was prolonged because Shelly had a lot of questions. By the time she was 

done, school had been over for ten minutes. 

10. Greg didn’t like vigorous exercise, so he played many different sports. 


Amazing Komodo Dragons 

Once, a British gazette had an unusual story. Scientists at a zoo made a discovery about 
komodo dragons. Komodo dragons are giant lizards that grow up to two and a half meters 
long. A female lizard at the zoo had babies. However, it had never been around a male 
lizard in its entire life. After the scientists publicized their discovery, many people thought it 

was fictitious. 

But it was true. It was discovered that female komodo dragons can have babies without 
the help of their male counterparts. This contradicts what scientists know about how most 
animals have babies. 

In most cases, there are many things that can obstruct this type of reproduction. For 
example, adult males and females carry different genes needed to make an embryo. If the 
genes are homogeneous, the babies are weaker and have genetic problems. Over time, the 
weakened species dies out completely. This makes it necessary for the male to be involved. 
However, scientists verified that when Komodo babies are born, their genes aren’t the exact 
same genes as their mother. Also, they are devoid of any genetic problems. 

Scientists theorize that Komodo dragons developed the ability because it helps the 
species fend off extinction. If a volcano erupts, lava can kill all of the komodo dragons on 
an island. However, as long as one female eludes death, she can prolong the survival of 
the species. Luckily, Komodo dragons are vigorous swimmers. So the surviving female 
can plunge into the ocean and swim to another island. When she comes ashore, she can 
reproduce by herself. Over time, the genes within the population diverge. Then, the sparse 
population increases. Once again there is a surplus of lizards on one island. Scientists think 
that this may be how the lizards took over all of the islands in that area. 



Reading Comprehension 


PART O Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. People thought that the story publicized in the gazette about the komodo dragons 

was fictitious. 


2. Female komodo dragons can have babies without their male counterparts. 


3. Scientists verified that baby komodo dragons have homogeneous genes if they don’t 

have fathers, which leads to genetic problems. 


4. Scientists theorize that the special ability of komodo dragons help them elude predators. 


5. A female komodo dragon can increase a sparse population so that there are surplus 

lizards on one island. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. How do komodo dragons contradict what scientists know about reproduction? 


2. Why is it possible for a komodo dragon to come ashore at a different island? 


3. How can a female komodo dragon prolong the survival of the species in case of a disaster? 


4. According to the passage, what happens to the genes of the population over time? 


5. What will happen to the komodo bobies if the genes are homogeneous? 




UNIT 


Word List 



altar [o itar] n. 

An altar is a table used in churches. 

-* The attar had many lit candles on it. 

arthritis [areraitis] n. 

Arthritis is an illness causing pain and swelling in a person’s joints. 
— * Agatha couldn't play the piano anymore because of her arthritis. 



botany [batam) n. 

Botany is the study of plants. 

—► Gardens are the best places for botany. 


l 



credible [kredabal) adj. 

If something or someone is credible, they can be believed or trusted. 

— > Dick gave a credible reason for being late and didn’t get in any trouble. 

deceased [disi st] adj. 

If someone is deceased, they are dead. 

— ► We visited the graves of our deceased grandparents. 

deception [disepjan] n. 

Deception is the act of lying or tricking someone. 

-* The magic looked very real, but it was only deception. 

decipher [disaifar] v. 

To decipher writing is to figure out what it says. 

-* My teacher complained that she couldn’t decipher my essay. 

dung Id/vrji n. 

Dung is solid waste material produced by animals. 

-» There was cow dung all over the field. 

dusk [dAsk] n. 

Dusk is the time in the evening when it begins to get dark. 

-» After dusk, Hannah would catch fireflies in the park. 

gratify [graetafai] v. 

To gratify someone means to please them. 

-» Bonnie was gratified after receiving her gift from her parents. 




3 



rn'im j"' 




■ 

L_ 



hone [houn] v. 

To hone something is to improve it and make it very good. 

-» Lisa honed her chess skills by hours and hours of practice. 

mash [maej] v. 

To mash something is to crush it so that it is soft. 

— ► We mashed the hard potatoes and served them for dinner. 

ornate (ovneitl adj. 

If something is ornate, it is decorated with a lot of fancy things. 

-» Kim’s prom dress was very expensive since it was so ornate. 

pneumonia itvumbunje] n. 

Pneumonia is a dangerous illness causing the lungs to fill with liquid. 

— Elaine got pneumonia after playing outside in the rain without a coat. 

psychic [salkik] adj. 

When someone is psychic, they know what will happen or what people think. 

-» / think my grandmother has psychic abilities because she can predict anything. 

psychotic [saikdtikj adj. 

If someone is psychotic, they have a very serious mental illness. 

— ► The psychotic patient believed he saw things that weren’t real. 


SCOpe [skoup] n 

The scope of something is how many people or things it relates to. 

-» Modern history has a wide scope. 

sinister [sinista:r] adj. 

If something or someone is sinister, they are evil. 

-* Bad guys in most movies have sinister laughs. 

strife [straif] n. 

Strife is disagreement or fighting between people or groups. 

-♦ There was a lot of strife between Urn and Lisa about what TV show to watch. 

therapeutic [eerapju.tik] adj. 

If something is therapeutic, it helps to cure a disease or makes you healthier. 
— After a stressful day of working, Phoebe would take a therapeutic bath. 




'S 


Exercise 


Choose the one that is opposite in meaning to the given word. 


credible 
a. unbelievable 

b. incorrect 

c. sly 

d. 

unprocessed 

deceased 
a. healed 

b. affected 

c. young 

d. 

alive 

ornate 
a. unworthy 

b. simple 

c. cruel 

d. 

blessed 

therapeutic 
a. valued 

b. sickening 

c. unavailable 

d. 

extra 

dusk 
a. moon 

b. sunrise 

c. eclipse 

d. 

month 


Exercise 2 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. The journalist checked all her sources to make sure they were believable . 

2. The hospital had a separate section for very mentally ill people. 

3. The child’s handwriting was almost impossible to figure out. 

4. The priest stood behind a(n) table used in religious ceremonies. 


5. Her new sweater was colorful and decorated. 


6. My dad crushes food for my baby brother because he doesn’t have teeth yet. 

7. People with an ailment affecting the joints are often unable to do physical activities. 

8. Some people think I have futur e seeing powers, but in reality I’m just very observant. 

9. Cows release so much was te material that some scientists believe they harm the environment. 


10. He didn’t like attending the opera, but he did it to satisfy his mother. 


UNIT 


Exercise 3 


Choose the one that is similar in meaning to the given word. 

1. hone 

a. game b. pain c. curse 

d. improve 

2. gratify 
a. admire 

b. please 

c. approve 

d. layer 

3 . mash 
a. crush 

b. place 

c. leave 

d. gather 

4 . strife 
a. hurt 

b. death 

c. conflict 

d. weakness 

5 . sinister 
a. evil 

b. futuristic 

c. willful 

d. thoughtless 


Exercise 4 


Fill in the blanks with the correct words from the word bank. 

Ward Bank — 

deceased decipher sinister pneumonia dusk 

scope botany therapeutic strife deception 


The 1 of the medical book is broad. 

It deals with all illnesses from colds to 2 . 

Marcia found the sound of the river 3 . 

She went there every day at 4 to relieve her stress. 

The criminal fooled everyone with his 5 . 

If only someone had stopped him from doing his 6 crimes. 

Solomon’s grandmother was 7 . 

Before she died, she taught him a lot about gardening and 8 . 

After the war, there was much 9 about land. 

It was difficult for the people to 10 the new laws about ownership. 





Greek Magical Papyri 

The Greek Magical Papyri is a collection of writing about magic. After it was found in the 
Egyptian desert, it took experts years to decipher it. The text was written in at least three 
different ancient languages. After many years, experts realized it contained a number of 
spells that varied greatly in scope 

The most common types of magic in the collection dealt with healing illnesses like 
pneumonia. Some spells also gave advice for treating people with mental illnesses, such as 
those who became psychotic. Some spells asked for unusual things, like crocodile dung. 

But botany was an important part of the magic. Many healing spells gave instructions on 
how to use herbs and plants that were believed to be therapeutic. For example, in order to 
cure arthritis, the book says that the magician should build an ornate altar. Then he should 
mash different types of herbs and place them on top of it. At dusk, he is supposed to say a 
spell, so the gods would be gratified. 

Other parts of the collection describe how to hone one’s psychic abilities and how to 
give credible descriptions of the future. Often, the book advised people how to use different 
objects to tell the future, including tea leaves. Also, one part of the book tells what different 
dreams might mean. It gives advice for using dreams to tell the future. 

A small part of the book, however, is more sinister than the rest. It is meant to cause 
strife and deception. For example, one tells how to give someone warts, while another will 

make all of the victim’s farm animals die. However, if someone’s 
farm animals died as a result of a curse, he could ask a magician 

to perform magic that makes the 
deceased come back to life. 


Reading Comprehension 


PART O Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The Greek Magical Papyri was hard to decipher because it was too large in scope. 


2. The book is about botany. 


3. The book gave advice for using crocodile dung to heal. 


4. A spell is spoken at dusk to become more credible. 


5. The book had instructions for honing one’s psychic powers. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. What illnesses does the book have advice for healing? 


2. What kind of plants does the book recommend using? 


3. What should someone do if they want to cure arthritis? 


4. What does the sinister part of the book focus on? 


5. What could someone ask a magician to do if their farm animals died? 






UNIT 




congested [kand3estid) adj. 

If something is congested, it is full or blocked. 

-* Tom didn’t get home until after dark because the road was so congested. 

courier [kuriar] n. 

A courier is someone who takes and delivers mail or packages. 

-* Before trains , most couriers used horses to travel. 

deform * 

To deform something means to change it from its correct or original shape. 

-» The computer program deformed the building 's picture into an unreal sight. 

etiquette letiket) n. 

Etiquette is the group of rules about how to be polite. 

— ► When in Asian countries, bowing is a form of etiquette. 

exclusive [iksklu.siv] adj. 

If something is exclusive, it is expensive and only for rich people. 

— ► The golf course was so exclusive that most people hadn’t even heard of it. 

freight [frettl n 

Freight is a set of items carried on a train, boat, or airplane. 

— ► Trade ships only carried valuable freight like silk and spice s. 



garment |go;miant| n. 

A garment is a piece of clothing. 

-» The business man had all of his garments cleaned before the important meeting. 

insomnia [insomnia] n. 

Insomnia is a condition in which a person has difficulty sleeping. 

-* Nate’s insomnia prevented him from getting enough rest. 

intuitive linyuitiv] adj. 

Intuitive is knowing about something without naturally having support or proof. 

-* Rhonda had an intuitive feeling that Shane wasn’t coming to school today. 

liable (laiabal) adj. 

If something is liable to happen, it is very likely that it will happen. 

-» During the summer months, hikers in the forest are liable to see deer and elk. 



RESERVED 

PARKING 

Employe* 
of the 
Yt at 



Obsess [abses) v. 

To obsess about something means to think about it all of the time. 

-* After watching the Star Wars movies, Ike obsessed about becoming a ledi. 

overboard [ouvarbordl adv. 

When something is overboard, it is over the side of a boat and in the water. 

-» Tom and Gary slipped on the wet floor and fell overboard. 

premium [primiaml n 

A premium is a payment that is higher than average. 

-* Tony paid for premium gas because it made his car run the best. 

privilege [privalid3l n. 

A privilege is a special right given to only a certain person or group of people. 
-* Only the best employee had the privilege of parking in that spot. 

propel (prepel] v. 

To propel something means to push or move it somewhere. 

The strong wind propelled the leaf through the air and across the street. 

Socialize [soujalaizl 

To socialize is to have a good time with people. 

— I like to socialize with my classmates after school. 

suppress [sapresl v. 

To suppress something means to prevent it from happening. 

-* She suppressed her urge to scream because she didn ’t want to be noticed. 

tram [traemj n. 

A tram is a vehicle like a streetcar that runs on electricity above ground. 

-* I took the tram to Eighth Avenue. 

unsettle [Ansetil v. 

To unsettle someone means to make them anxious or worried. 

-* The dark clouds in the sky unsettled Beth. 

warp [wa rp] V. 

To warp means to become bent into the wrong shape. 

-* The woman put the clock above the fireplace, and the heat warped it. 


• • 


Exercise 1 


Choose the one that is similar in meaning to the given word. 


1 . 

congested 



a. normal 

b. crowded 

2. 

exclusive 



a. limited 

b. ancient 

3. 

unsettle 



a. bring 

b. intend 

4. 

garment 



a. clothing 

b. equipment 

5. 

propel 



a. avoid 

b. push 


distinct 

d. hostile 

inexpensive 

d. unruly 

increase 

d. worry 

criticism 

d. unplanned action 

capable 

d. toughen 


Exercise 2 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. The meeting of the citizens’ group was prevented from happ ening by the police. 

2. The warm weather had change d the ice sculptures into strange shapes. 

3. Dad says drinking milk before going to bed helps with a disorder that makes it hard to sleep . 

4. After I saw the scary movie, walking home in the darkness upset me. 

5. After school, I'm likely to go visit my friend at her house. 

6. Dylan believed it to be his special right to be treated as superior to all the others. 

7. A gust of wind blew her scarf over the e dge of the boat while she was sailing. 

8. He didn’t know what the proper set of rules about being polite was for returning a gift. 


9. The train was full of clothes that were to be sold overseas. 


10. The wax candle twisted and formed a di fferent shape because it was left in the sun. 



Fill in the blanks with the correct words from the word bank. 


C Word Bank ft 

congested exclusive suppress premium etiquette 

courier socialize obsessed warp tram 


The club was very 1 and didn’t have many members. 

The members had to pay a 2 just to join. 

My mother is 3 with making sure we impress our guests. 

For example, she makes sure our 4 is perfect. 

I stepped onto the 5 and couldn’t find a seat right away. 

Finally, I made my way through the 6 aisle and sat down. 

Hannah worked as a 7 for an advertising company. 

Between making deliveries, she liked to 8 with the employees. 

The glue couldn’t 9 the water from leaking from the pipes. 

Since I didn’t clean it up right away, it caused the wooden floor to 10 


Exercise 4 


Write C if the italicized word is used correctly. Write I if the word is used incorrectly. 

1. Allie could always count on her intuitive powers to know where her cat was. That’s 

why the cat never got lost. 


2. The weatherman said it was liable to rain over the entire weekend, so we decided to 

go for a picnic on Saturday. 


3. lared couldn’t stop obsessing about his grade. When his teacher returned his test, he 

forgot about it immediately. 


4. Maxine suffers from insomnia. She has seen several doctors, but none have helped 

her get any more sleep. 


5 . 


Walter didn’t know what to wear to the concert. All of his best garments needed to be 
washed. 


Watch Out! 

Kevin stepped off the tram and walked toward the ship, holding a package tightly in his 
nands. He had been hired as a courier for an important broker. All he needed to do was 
deliver a package to an office in New York City; the ship would take him there. 

When he boarded, the ship was congested with people. As Kevin walked to his cabin, 
he saw the exclusive first-class section. Everybody inside was wearing fancy garments. He 
would have liked to socialize with the people inside, but it was against proper etiquette. 
People paid a premium for the privilege to ride in first-class. 

Instead, he went to his cabin next to the freight section of the boat. His room smelled 
bad, and the floorboards were warped and deformed in some areas. He could also hear the 
motor humming as it waited to propel the ship forward. Suddenly, Kevin was unsettled by 
something, but he wasn’t sure why. 

He took a short walk on the ship’s deck, but he still felt strange. That night, he suffered 
from insomnia-he couldn’t suppress his obsessing over how strange he felt. 

Kevin went back on deck. It was cold and dark outside. He looked overboard, but it 
seemed that everything was all right. “Just go back inside,” he thought. Then Kevin saw it. A 
giant iceberg was sticking out of the ocean in the distance! 

“Help!” he yelled. 

People looked at him as if he was crazy, but he continued to shout until he saw the 
captain. 

“There’s an iceberg out there.” Kevin said to him. “If the ship doesn’t move, we’re liable 
to crash,” he said, pointing toward the iceberg. 

The captain saw it and immediately instructed the crew to change the ship’s direction. 
“Without your help, we would have definitely hit the iceberg. That would have been a 
terrible disaster!” he said to Kevin. 

Kevin felt relieved. Now he knew to always trust his intuitive sense. 





eading Comprehension 


PART G Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Kevin took a taxi to the ship. 


2. In order to get the privilege to be in the exclusive section, one had to wear fancy garments. 


3. Kevin didn’t socialize with the people in the exclusive section because it was too 

congested. 


4. Kevin could not sleep because he had insomnia. 


5. If Kevin hadn’t seen the iceberg, the ship was liable to have crashed into it. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. Describe Kevin’s room next to the freight section. 


2. While he was on the ship, what could Kevin hear humming? 


3. What did Kevin see when he looked overboard the first time? 


4. What did the captain do when he heard the news about the iceberg? 


3 


5. What did Kevin learn at the end of the story? 


#• 






Word List 


artery [firtaril n. 

An artery is a tube that takes blood from the heart to the rest of the body. 

— ► Eating healthily keeps your arteries clean, so blood can flow with ease. 

deterioration [ditiariar&j'anl n. 

Deterioration is the act of becoming worse. 

— » The lack of care led to the deterioration of the house. 

elusive [ilursiv] ad). 

If something or someone is elusive, they are hard to find. 

— * The elusive fish only came out at night. 

forage [to nd3J * 

To forage means to look around for food. 

— ► Many animals hide food in the fall since little can be foraged in winter. 

impede Dmpt.d] v. 

To impede something means to keep it from moving or going forward. 

-» The barrier impeded our ability to get closer to the building. 

induce [in<*u s] v. 

To induce something means to make it happen. 

-* Running without good shoes may induce leg pain. 

inseparable [inseparably] ad). 

If two things are inseparable, they can’t be separated. 

-* Denise and Diana have been inseparable since they first met. 

invalid [mvaelid] adj. 

If something is invalid, it is not correct. 

-» The way to winning debates is to avoid invalid arguments. 

magnify [maegnafai] v. 

To magnify something means to make it look bigger than it really is. 

— »■ Astronomers use telescopes to magnify far-away stars. 

mainstream [meinsutm] n. 

The mainstream is a group of ideas that are considered normal and accepted. 

-* Before punk rock music became part of the mainstream, only a few people liked it. 


microbe [maikroub] n. 

A microbe is a very small living thing that often makes people sick. 

-* The first step in curing a disease is finding the microbe that causes the disease. 

negligible [neglicJ3ab9l] adj. 

If something is negligible, it is extremely small and not important. 

— * The amount she owed was negligible. It was less than ten cents. 

paralysis [paraelas.sl n. 

Paralysis is the loss of the ability to move all or part of your body. 

-» His paralysis meant that he had to use a wheelchair to get around. 

pest [pest] n. 

A pest is an animal or insect that hurts plants or food. 

-* Many farmers put up scarecrows to keep pests off of their corn. 

prevail [priveii] v. 

To prevail means to be accepted or very common. 

-♦ Unfortunately, injustice still prevails in the country’s court system. 

respiration [respsreijenl n. 

Respiration is the act of breathing. 

-» Artificial respiration is the best thing to do if someone stops breathing. 

rupture [rAptJer] V. 

To rupture means to tear or burst open. 

-* Sarah put too much water into the balloon, and it ruptured. 

Savage [saevids] adj. 

If something or someone is savage, they are very violent or cruel. 

-» Wild animals are very savage when defending their babies. 

Stun [stAnl V. 

To stun someone means to make them unable to speak due to surprise or shock. 
-* Tim fell off the swing and was too stunned to cry. 

susceptible [saseptsbsl] adj. 

If one is susceptible to something like disease, they are easily harmed by it. 

-» Not eating enough vegetables makes you more susceptible to getting sick. 


In 




Exercise 1 


Choose the one that is similar in meaning to the given word. 


1. microbe 


a. germ 

b. type 

2. respiration 


a. living 

b. sleeping 

3. artery 


a. vein 

b. area 

4. pest 


a. bug 

b. food 

5. induce 


a. take out 

b. cause 

6. invalid 


a. hurt 

b. unproven 

7. rupture 


a. burst 

b. reach 

8. forage 


a. plant 

b. cook 

9. stun 


a. shock 

b. injure 

10. susceptible 


a. helpful 

b. at risk 


c. liquid 

d. difficulty 

c. breathing 

d. moving 

c. medication 

d. tube 

c. toy 

d. victim 

c. stop 

d. chase 

c. critical 

d. untrue 

c. sting 

d. bother 

c. search 

d. hide 

c. threaten 

d. attack 

c. informative 

d. suffering 


Exercise 2 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. The old house was full of insects t hat cause harm. 


2. My brother-in-law always tries to enlarge small problems so that they seem much greater 
than they really are. 


3. Mr. Robinson owned a violent dog that terrified all the children in the neighborhood. 


4. If you eat spicy food at night, it will lead to heartburn. 


5. His tubes that carry blood are clogged. 


Exercise 3 


Choose the one that is opposite in meaning to the given word. 


impede 
a. allow 

b. start 

c. anger 

d. 

heal 

elusive 
a. available 

b. under 

c. venomous 

d. 

shy 

paralysis 
a. illness 

b. mobility 

c. problems 

d. 

doctor 

mainstream 
a. uncommon 

b. untested 

c. scientific 

d. 

wild 

negligible 
a. cared for 

b. reasonable 

c. important 

d. 

unexpected 

magnify 
a. release 

b. check 

c. save 

d. 

shrink 

prevail 
a. conquer 

b. fail 

c. take 

d. 

feet 

deterioration 
a. improvement 

b. back-up 

c. function 

d. 

loss 

savage 
a. hungry 

b. cruel 

c. gentle 

d. 

unwilling 

inseparable 
a. protective 

b. dividable 

c. kind 

d. 

resigned 


Exercise 4 


Fill in the blanks with the correct words from the word bank. 

( Worri 8ank 9 

elusive mainstream paralysis pests microbes 

stunned susceptible deterioration forage impede 


The movie’s unusual topic might 1 its popularity. 

Most 2 movies don’t deal with strange themes. 

The 3 fox finally came out of its den. 

It planned to 4 for food before winter. 

Rats are 5 that are found all over the world. 

They carry 6 that can make people very sick. 

Mr. Garson was 7 by the bright light. 

His shock caused a momentary 8 that kept him from moving. 

Mrs. Draper’s old age made her 9 to some illnesses. 

Doctors told herthat the 10 of her health could be avoided. 


Dangerous Bites 


There are many animals with dangerous bites in the world, but which one is the worst? 
Some would say that the elusive short-tailed mamushi has the worst bite. The snake only 
goes into homes to chase pests such as mice. Otherwise, it stays in the fields, where it’s 
dangerous to people who forage for food there. If someone stuns it by accidentally stepping 
on it, it bites to protect itself. At first, the effects of the bite may seem negligible because 
it doesn’t cause a lot of bleeding. However, after a few moments, the venom induces 
paralysis in the area where the individual was bitten. Furthermore, the venom can also 
impede respiration. If the person doesn’t go to the doctor, they are susceptible to kidney 
deterioration. 

Others would argue that tigers have the worst bite. Mother tigers are inseparable from 
their babies and seem to be the gentlest creatures when they are around their young. 
However, if the babies are threatened, the mother tiger’s savage nature prevails. With 
strong jaws and the ability to move quickly, the tiger can kill someone with one bite. That’s 
because it always tries to bite an important artery when it attacks. If the artery is ruptured, 
the victim will bleed to death. 

In the mainstream, animal bites are seen as the most dangerous. But some scientists 
think this idea is invalid. In fact, the most dangerous bite might be the human bite. When 
scientists magnified the contents in human saliva, they found about three hundred different 
microbes in it. A human bite can be dangerous if the bacteria enters the body through a cut, 

which can make people very sick. Furthermore, most people don’t 
realize how serious a human bite can be. so they don’t go to 
the doctor right away. This gives the wound a chance to get 
infected and cause more problems. 





UN t f 


eading Comprehension 


PART O Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The elusive mamushi attacks humans if it is bothered by pests in houses. 


2. The consequences of a mamushi bite are negligible. 


3. Mother tigers are inseparable from their babies. 


4. When tigers attack, they try to rupture an important artery. 


5. Scientists think that the mainstream idea that human bites are the most dangerous 

is invalid. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. What group of people is at risk for mamushi bites? 


2. What are the effects of a mamushi bite? 


3. When does a tiger’s savage nature prevail? 


4. What did scientists find when they magnified human saliva? 


5. Why do human bites often become infected? 






accumulate (akju nijaieitJ V. 

To accumulate something is to collect a lot of it over time. 

-» The mail accumulated in their mailbox while they were on vacation. 

aerial (canal) ad 

When something is aerial, it relates to being in the air or flying. 

— The aerial photographer took pictures from the air balloon. 

apparatus laeparaeitas] n. ^ 

An apparatus is a device used for a particular purpose. 

-» The campers had an apparatus that showed them their exact location. 

avalanche [revalaentf] n. 

An avalanche is a large amount of snow, ice, and rock falling off a mountain. 

-» The avalanche destroyed the mountain village. 

Consistency Ikansistartsi] n. 

Consistency is the state of always behaving in the same way. 

— ► Her consistency in archery meant that our team had a chance to win. 

Convection ikanvekjan] n 

Convection is the flow of hot air through gas or liquid. 

-* The weather changed because of convection in the atmosphere. 

discharge idistjo/d3l v. 

To discharge someone is to allow them to leave from a place, usually a hospital 
-* / was discharged from the hospital after three days. 

intact [inteekt] adj. 

When something is intact, it is complete and not damaged. 

-* Despite being over ten years old, my father’s model ship is still intact. 

mortal [mortlj adj. 

When a person is mortal, they cannot live forever. 

-* All people are mortal. 

Omen [oumanl n 

An omen is a sign of what will happen in the future. 

-* He thought that seeing a black cat in the street was an omen of bad luck. 




Overcast ouvgrkasst ] adj. 

When the sky is overcast, it is full of clouds and is not sunny. 

-* The sky was overcast in the morning, but by noon it was bright again. 

poignant Ipairyant] adj. 

When something is poignant, it causes a very strong feeling of sadness. 

— * The girls cried at the end of the poignant movie. 

ranger (reindjad n. 

A ranger is a person who protects the forest or parks. 

-* Peter wanted to be a ranger because he liked spending time outside. 

rubble [rAbatl n. 

Rubble is piles of broken stone and wood created after a building is destroyed. 
-* There was rubble all over the city after the earthquake. 

seclude [siKiudi v. 

To seclude someone means to keep them away from other people. 

-* She was secluded on an island for over a year. 

sideways [saidweiz] adv. 

If something moves sideways, then it moves to or from the side. 

-* jim turned sideways in order to slow down and stop his snowboard. 

Sob [sab] v. 

To sob is to cry loudly. 

-* / sobbed when my youngest daughter got married. 

Sober [soubsd adi 

When something or someone is sober, they are serious and calm. 

-* After the funeral, everybody felt very sober. 

Speck [spek] n. 

A speck is a very small mark or amount. 

-* A speck of blood appeared where the mosquito bit him. 

upbringing [Apbrininl n. 

An upbringing is the way that someone is taught to behave by their parents. 

-► He had a strict upbringing and was never allowed to watch television. 


S 





Choose the one that is similar in meaning to the given word. 

1. omen 



a. sign 

b. storm 

c. accident 

d. 

item 

2. 

apparatus 
a. method 

b. idea 

c. device 

d. 

name 

3. 

convection 
a. weather 

b. belief 

c. heat flow 

d. 

movement 

4. 

sob 

a. watch 

b. serve 

c. wait 

d. 

cry 

5. 

seclude 
a. study 

b. repair 

c. hide 

d. 

purchase 

6 . 

ranger 

a. forest worker 

b. police 

c. lumberjack 

d. 

guard 

7. 

avalanche 
a. landslide 

b. snowstorm 

c. disaster 

d. 

believable 

8. 

accumulate 
a. impressive 

b. winning 

c. collect 

d. 

wave 

9. 

rubble 
a. boards 

b. dirt 

c. ruins 

d. 

ice 

10. 

upbringing 
a. background 

b. routine 

c. schedule 

d. 

experience 


Exercise 2 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. The accident wasn’t serious, and Ernest was released from the hospital quickly. 


2. My grandfather says that if you have itchy hands, it’s a(n) sign that you’ll receive money soon. 


3. The book’s emotional descriptions taught me that war brings sadness to everyone. 


4. The photograph was perfect except for a tinv mark on the corner. 


5. The child cried loudly because his mother wouldn’t buy him a toy he wanted. 


Exercise 3 



Choose the one that is opposite in meaning to the given word. 

1. overcast 


a. warm 

b. bright 

c. morning 

d. 

apparent 

2. consistency 
a. irregularity 

b. delicacy 

c. loyalty 

d. 

intelligence 

3. poignant 
a. gloomy 

b. supportive 

c. thoughtful 

d. 

unemotional 

4. intact 
a. alive 

b. broken 

c. aged 

d. 

tired 

5. mortal 
a. natural 

b. content 

c. deadly 

d. 

everlasting 

6. speck 
a. huge 

b. fragment 

c. far 

d. 

clear 

7. sober 
a. drunk 

b. caring 

c. calm 

d. 

ready 

8. discharge 
a. cure 

b. imprison 

c. pay 

d. 

arrive 

9. aerial 

a. from ground 

b. technology 

c. emergency 

d. 

safety 

10. sideways 
a. quickly 

b. forward 

c. again 

d. 

safely 


Exercise 4 


Fill in the blanks with the correct words from the word bank. 

.• ( Wnrrt Bank i 

aerial accumulated sober rubble intact 

overcast avalanche sideways ranger mortal 

Before the storm, it was very windy and 1 outside. 

When it began to snow, it quickly 2 on the roof. 

The old wall fell over 3 and broke to pieces. 

Afterwards, nothing was left but some 4 . 

The photograph, though old, was still 5 . 

It showed my father in his forest 6 uniform. 

After the 7 , much of the town was destroyed by snow. 

8 photographs showed that only a few houses remained. 

It was a very 9 moment for him when his wife passed away. 

He truly realized that people are 10 . 



The Avalanche 


Randy was a forest ranger. Because of his job, he was secluded in a cabin in the 
wilderness. 

One day, the radio reported, “Convection in the atmosphere is causing a lot of clouds to 
form. A serious storm . . ." Suddenly, the radio went silent. The signal was lost. 

He went outside and looked at the overcast sky. Anybody else would have taken the 
dark sky as an omen of a very bad storm, but not Randy. His upbringing had taught him 
consistency. He had done this job for years, and nothing could stop him. Besides, he 
thought nothing could hurt him. 

Today, he had a very important task to do. The snow was starting to pile up high on 
the mountain. If too much accumulated, it could cause an avalanche. But Randy had an 
apparatus to get rid of the snow. It used dynamite to shake the snow and make the top 
layer of snow come down. 

As the snow started falling, he thought about returning to the office until the storm 
stopped, but he decided not to. Suddenly, he heard a loud noise behind him. It was an 
avalanche! He started to run, but within seconds, he was knocked sideways and buried 
by the snow and rubble from an old cabin that had been destroyed. An aerial rescue team 
came quickly. Randy was just a speck amongst the great pile of snow, but the team found 
him thanks to his brightly colored jacket. They quickly took him to a hospital. 

After a few hours, Randy woke up in the hospital. He looked at the sober faces of the 
doctors and saw his wife sobbing. 

“What’s wrong?” he asked. He didn’t remember what had happened. 

“You were almost killed!” his wife said. 

“You broke several ribs. But the rest of you is still 
reasonably intact. You are really lucky to be alive,” the 
doctor said. 

After five days, Randy was discharged from the 
hospital. The experience had taught him a poignant 
lesson: he was a mortal, and nature was much more 
powerful than him. 



UNIT 



PART Q Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The avalanche was caused by convection in the atmosphere. 


2. Randy’s job as a ranger had taught him consistency. 


3. Randy had an apparatus that moved snow sideways to help avoid avalanches 


4. Randy was seen by the aerial rescue team thanks to his brightly colored jacket. 


5. According to the doctor, Randy was lucky to be alive after the avalanche 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. What was the overcast sky an omen of? 


2. What did Randy see when he woke up after the avalanche? 


3. Why was Randy secluded in the wilderness? 


4. How long was it before Randy was discharged from the hospital? 


5. What poignant lesson did Randy learn from his experience? 


UNIT 


Word List 




i 

r 






advocate laedvakeit] V. 

To advocate a plan or idea is to support or suggest it in public. 

-* The group advocated increased spending on education and schools. 

authorize [o;eoralz] v. 

To authorize something means to give permission for it. 

-» The mayor authorized the construction of a new statue in the park. 

civilian [siviijon] n. , 

A civilian is someone who is not in the military. 

— * It was Todd’s job to keep civilians from entering the army facility. 

commodity [kamodati] n. 

A commodity is something that can be bought or sold. 

-» Fran’s uncle made most of his money trading commodities. 

Conquest [karjkwest] n. 

A conquest is an event by which one country takes over another country. 

-» After the conquest, the people of the small city had no freedom. 

disclose tdisklOuz] V. 

To disclose something means to tell it to someone else. 

-» John came home late, so he had to disclose his activities to his wife. 

dynamics Idainaemiks] n. 

The dynamics of a situation are the way that parts of it affect each other. 

-* A good psychologist needs to know a lot about the dynamics of brain disorders. 

enroll [cnroul] V. 

To enroll in something is to put one’s name on a list as a member of a group. 
-* The students had to enroll in the class one semester in advance. 

envious tenvissj adj. 

When someone is envious, they want something that another person has. 

-* They were envious of their neighbor’s front yard. 

euphoria lju.fS:riol n. 

Euphoria is a feeling of extreme happiness. 

— > The athlete felt euphoria after he won the important game. 


festive [festiv] adj. 

When something is festive, it is happy and related to a party or celebration. 
— * Dean's favorite part of Christmas is the festive clothing that people wear. 

jolly [d3all] adj. 

When someone is jolly, they are cheerful and happy. 

-» My grandmother’s jolly attitude always made me smile. 

lentil llent/l] n. 

Lentils are very small beans that people cook and eat. 

— ► Danni made her special soup with lentils when her husband was sick. 

marshal [mo dal] v. 

To marshal a group means to assemble them in order. 

-> The students were marshaled outside and put into groups. 

morale [moorael] n. 

Morale is the amount of hope that people have during a difficult situation. 
-> To improve our family’s morale, mom suggested going on a picnic. 

prophecy [prdfasi] n. 

A prophecy is a prediction about what will happen in the future. 

-* Some people believe that prophecies are actually true. 

Sage [seidj] n. 

A sage is someone who is very wise. 

-* Hal always visited the local sage for help with love. 

senate [senat] n. 

A senate is a part of the government in some countries. 

-♦ Everybody liked Caroline and chose her to speak for them in the senate. 

Sentiment (sentamant] n. 

A sentiment is an opinion based on your feelings. 

-* Tess told everyone at the table her sentiments about eating meat. 

unrest [/vnrest] n. 

Unrest is a state of anger about something among the people in a place. 
-► High taxes caused much of the unrest that led to the Revolutionary War. 



Exercise 1 


Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. Who is a person with the power to authorize a war? 

a. A teacher b. A guard c. A chef d. A president 

2. Which of the following might give you euphoria? 

a. Winning a great prize b. Falling off your bike 

c. Having your jacket stolen d. Cutting your finger 

3. What best describes a sage? 

a. Alert b. Intelligent c. Heavy d. Unreliable 

4. Which of the following is a valuable commodity? 

a. Oil b. Mountains c. Rainwater d. Grass 

% 

5. What might cause unrest at a school? 

a. Students receiving lunch for free b. Students getting rewarded for good grades 

c. Students having daily tests d. Students being told to go home early 


Exercise 2 


Choose the one that is opposite in meaning to the given word. 


1. authorize 
a. make easy 

b. reinforce 

c. declare 

d. reject 

2. conquest 
a. combination 

b. liberation 

c. eliminate 

d. shortage 

3. disclose 
a. conceal 

b. support 

c. dryout 

d. show as guilty 

4. euphoria 

a. measurement 

b. suggestion 

c. depression 

d. untruthfulness 

5. unrest 

a. no planning 

b. peace 

c. early stage 

d. generosity 

6. sage 
a. fool 

b. stubborn 

c. gloomy 

d. praiseworthy 

7. civilian 

a. traditionalist 

b. salesman 

c. preacher 

d. soldier 

8. festive 
a. honest 

b. penniless 

c. unhappy 

d. unchanging 

9. enroll 
a. quit 

b. imply 

c. enlist 

d. make better 

10. advocate 
a. fallen 

b. sinner 

c. antisocial 

d. oppose 


Exercise 3 


Choose the one that is similar in meaning to the given word. 


1. lentil 


a. prize 

b. bean 

2. envious 


a. awkward 

b. sensible 

3. commodity 


a. product 

b. inactivity 

4. dynamics 


a. angry speech 

b. edge of 

5. prophecy 


a. comes before 

b. prediction 

6. morale 


a. goodness 

b. confidence 

7. marshal 


a. assemble 

b. promise 

8. jolly 


a. inspiring 

b. appealing 

9. senate 


a. nice feeling 

b. aspiration 

10. sentiment 


a. confidence 

b. effort 


c. nut 

d. coin 

c. jealous 

d. cowardly 

c. genius 

d. act of scolding 

c. aspects 

d. enthusiasm 

c. true story 

d. large amount 

c. sympathy 

d. temperature 

c. attempt 

d. contain 

c. merry 

d. rational 

c. school 

d. government 

c. acceptance 

d. opinion 


Exercise 4 


Write C if the italicized word is used correctly. Write I if the word is used incorrectly. 

1. Janice’s dad was a part of the senate. He fixed cars all day. 


2. Damon read about the Roman conquest of northern Africa. He was amazed by all the 

places that the Romans took over. 


3. The teacher understood the dynamics between instructors and students in the 

classroom. 

4. Mariah enrolled the clothes and put them in her drawer. 

5. Sheldon was a vegetarian. He advocated for people not to eat meat. 




The Lydian King 

King Croesus was once one of the richest kings in the world. He ruled over Lydia, an ancient 
empire located near modern-day Turkey and controlled a valuable commodity: gold. Many 
people were very envious of him. 

One day, a messenger disclosed some interesting news: political unrest in Persia had 
weakened the empire. Before then, the Persians had taken over many countries. Many 
leaders were scared of the Persian conquest. But King Croesus understood the dynamics 
of war better than most. He decided that it would be a good time to try to beat the Persians 
while they were weak. 

He advocated starting war, but nobody shared his sentiment. Then he asked a wise 
member of the senate who was visiting from Athens. The sage didn’t say whether he should 
attack the Persians or not. He only warned him that his good luck wouldn’t last. 

Finally, King Croesus sent a messenger to visit the Oracle, a special lady who could see 
the future. The messenger gave the Oracle jugs of wine and baskets of lentils in orderto make 
her happy. 

When the messenger came back, he was in a festive mood. 

“What was the Oracle’s prophecy?" asked King Croesus. 

The jolly messenger responded, “She said that if you attack Persia, you will destroy a great 
empire.” 

The news filled Croesus with euphoria. After hearing the Oracle’s prophecy, many civilians 
enrolled in the Lydian army. The king marshaled his troops and prepared them for a war with 
Persia. Their morale was high because they were sure they would win. Soon, King Croesus 
authorized an attack against the Persians. 

However, the Persian army was still very strong. After a few months of fighting, it was 
obvious that the Oracle’s prophecy had come true: by attacking the Persians, King Croesus 
had destroyed a great empire— his own! King Croesus should have considered the advice 
more carefully. 


eading Comprehension 


PART O Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. People were envious of King Croesus because he understood the dynamics of war 
better than anybody else. 


2. The messenger disclosed that the Persians were in a state of unrest. 


3. The sage man from the senate was the only one that shared the king’s sentiment. 


4. The messenger gave the Oracle jugs of wine and baskets of lentils to make her happy. 


5. The Oracle’s prophecy was that the Lydian conquest of Persia would be successful. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. Why did King Croesus advocate war against the Persians? 


2. Why was the messenger in a festive and jolly mood when he returned from seeing the Oracle? 


3. How did King Croesus feel after he heard the Oracle’s prophecy? 


4. How did the civilians who enrolled and were marshaled in the Lydian army feel about the war? 


5. What did King Croesus learn from the experience? 







Word List 


adorn [adorn] v. 

To adorn something means to make it more beautiful by decorating it. 

-♦ Small glass beads adorned the vase. 

bliss [blis] n. 

Bliss is a state of complete happiness. 

-* Every time he sees his girlfriend, he feels a sense of bliss. 

butler [bAtlar] n. 

A butler is the most important male servant in a wealthy house. 

— Whenever he needed something, he rang a bell, and the butler appeared. 

Cramp [kraemp] n. 

A cramp is a strong pain caused by a muscle after a lot of physical use. 

-» After the marathon, lenny got a terrible cramp in her calf muscle. 

dilapidated [dileepadeitid] odj. 

When a building is dilapidated, it is old and in bad condition. 

-* Paint peeled off of the old dilapidated apartment building. 

evoke [ivouk] v. 

To evoke a memory or emotion means to make it occur. 

-» The picture evoked memories of when grandmother was a girl. 

farewell [fearwel] n. 

A farewell is an instance of saying goodbye or a way to say it. 

-* She got on the plane after we said our farewells. 

faucet [foisit] n. 

A faucet is a device that controls the flow of a liquid or gas. 

-» Turn off the faucet when you are done brushing your teeth. 

filth tfile] n. 

Filth is a large amount of dirt or dirty things that disgust you. 

-* There was tons of filth and trash on the shore of the river. 

flaw [flo] n. 

A flaw is a mistake in something that causes it to be less effective or correct. 
-♦ We discovered a major flaw in the metal chain. 








grin Igrin) V/. 

To grin means to smile broadly. 

— * That joke makes me grin every time I hear it. 

housekeeping [hauskipiq] n. 

Housekeeping is the maintenance of a house or an establishment like a hotel. 
— » Housekeeping is not much fun, but it has to be done. 

mound Imaund] n. 

A mound of something is a large pile of it. 

-♦ There was a mound of clothes on the messy teenager’s floor. 

numb InAm] adj. 

When a body part is numb, it does not have any feeling. 

-* After holding my hand under the icy water, my fingers went numb. 

reckless LreklisJ adi. 

When people are reckless, they act in an unsafe way. 

-* The reckless driver posed a threat to everyone else on the road. 

slate [sleitj n. 

Slate is a dark grey rock that can easily be split into layers. 

-* The roof of the church was made of slate. 

Stool [stu l] n. 

A stool is a seat with legs but no support for a person’s arms and back. 

— ► I don’t find stools very comfortable to sit on. 

testament [testament] n. 

A testament to something shows that it exists or is true. 

-» The beautiful performance was a testament to the singer’s natural talents. 


timber Itimba:/-] n. 

Timber is wood that is used for building houses and making furniture. 

-» Trees in this area are grown specifically to be used for timber. 

valve [vaelv] n. 

A valve is a device attached to a pipe that controls the flow of liquid or air. 
-* The mechanic removed the dirt to clear the engine valve. 


US 




Exercise I 


Choose the one that is similar in meaning to the given word 


1. reckless 
a. impressive 


b. careless 


c. fake 


d. colorful 


2. flaw 
a. loss 


b. injury 


c. mistake 


d. relative 


3. farewell 

a. goodbye 

4. filth 
a. ice 


b. maybe 


b. dirt 


c. instead 


c. tear 


d. with luck 


d. track 


5. bliss 

a. boldness 


b. comfort 


c. greatness 


d. happiness 


» 



Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. The large p ile of dirt covered most of the backyard. 

2. Please call for the most important male s ervant. 

3. I don’t think we have enough wood used for building furniture to complete the project. 

4. The playful puppy made the baby smile broadly. 

5. We’ll have to install a new device that a ttaches t o a tube to control the flow of liquid . 

6. I got a small muscle pain in my leg after having a long workout at the gym. 

7. To reach the TV, the young girl stood on the seat with legs but no arm support. 

8. A high examination score is a proof of the existence of good studying skills. 

9. The man became worried when his arm was without feeling . 

10. He was hired to repair the house that had become old and in bad condit ion. 


Exercise 3 


Write C if the italicized word is used correctly. Write I if the word is used incorrectly. 

1. The scientist’s theory was full of flaws. There was no way it could work. 

2. The butler catered to the old man’s every need. 

3. I hope we do not have to say farewells to the bus to school. 

4. The teacher was proud of the filth her students achieved in class. 

5. After the initial pain of dropping the hammer on my toe, it went numb. 

6. He was not looking forward to cleaning the huge mound of dirty dishes in the sink. 

7. The scared child felt bliss and cried for his mother. 

8. Huge stained-glass windows adorn the new church. 

9. Fossil evidence is a testamentlo the immense size of dinosaurs. 

10. The reckless climber took every precaution to insure a safe climb. 

11. The girl’s jump rope has a cramp in it. 

12. The weather report says slate will fall for the next three days. 

13. My entire family helps with housekeeping. I sweep the floor, and my brother dusts. 

14. The mother grinned when her child scored the winning run in the baseball game. 

15. The timber was a nice addition to our breakfast meal. 

16. He took off his shoes and leaned back into the comfortable stool. 

17. Adjust the valve to insure proper airflow. 

18. The dilapidated fire truck was a beautiful site. 

19. The movie was great because it evoked strong feelings in viewers. 

20. You can get hot or cold water from this faucet. 


The Butler 


Greta was an elderly lady who lived alone in a huge, dilapidated mansion. The mansion 
was in terrible condition. It was covered with filth, and most of the furniture was broken. 

Plus, the kitchen sink leaked water all over the floor. Greta was too old to do housekeeping 
and repairs herself, so she hired a butler named Gordon. 

Gordon was a young, muscular man. His muscles were a testament to his strong work 
ethic. He believed that if he worked hard, great things would happen for him. On his first 
day, he worked for hours cleaning and making repairs. He swept up mounds of dirt. He 
tightened the valve underneath the kitchen faucet to stop the leak. He even bought timber 
to build new stools for the kitchen. He worked so hard that his fingers went numb, and he 
got cramps in his shoulders. 

Gordon worked hard every day. Even when tasks were boring, he was never reckless. He 
made sure there were no flaws in his work. Gordon was worried, however, * 
that Greta wasn't pleased. She never expressed thanks or said that he 
did a good job. The lack of appreciation evoked unhappy feelings 
m in Gordon. He even thought about quitting. But he decided the 
right thing to do was to keep working hard. 

One day, while Gordon was sweeping, 
Greta said, “Gordon! I have a surprise for 
you!” He went to Greta’s room and saw 
a beautiful slate statue. It looked 



just like him! It was adorned with a 
banner that read: “Welcome home.” 
Greta said, “You’ve made this 
ugly old mansion look new again. 
I’m so thankful for your hard work 
that I want you to have it. I’ll move 
into a smaller house.” 

He grinned and gave 
Greta a big hug. He said, 
“I’m in bliss! My hard 
work really paid off!” 

The two said their 
farewells, and Gordon 
spent the afternoon 
admiring his beautiful 
new home. 


_ 


PART O Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The dilapidated mansion was covered in filth. 


2. Gordon’s muscles were a testament to his flaws. 


3. Gordon was never reckless even when tasks were boring. 


4. The mound of dirt evoked unhappy feelings in Gordon. 


5. Gordon tightened the valve under the kitchen faucet and bought timber to build 

stools. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. Why did Greta hire a butler to do the housekeeping and repairs? 


2. Why did Gordon’s shoulders get cramps and his fingers become numb? 


« 


3. What was written on the banner that adorned the slate statue? 


4. What did Gordon say when he grinned and felt bliss? 


5. What happened after Greta and Gordon said their farewells? 




UNIT 


1 


Word List 

L 1 

\J j 




certify [ss.rtsfai] V. 

To certify something means to confirm that its results are true. 

-* The photograph on her passport certified that she was indeed lolene Sawyer. 

collaborate Ikalaebareit] V. 

To collaborate means to work together on something. 

-* When they collaborated, they managed to finish their chores early. 

Compile [kampail] v. 

To compile things means to collect a variety of them into a group. 

-* She compiled a list of people who she wanted to attend her birthday party. 

counteract [kauntoraakt] v. 

To counteract something means to act against it in order to reduce or stop it. 

-♦ Medicine is supposed to counteract illnesses. 

Curb [karbl v. 

To curb something means to prevent it from happening or increasing. 

-* She curbed her anger by listening to a relaxing song. 

diagnose idalognbus] v. 

To diagnose someone means to identify the medical condition they have. 

— » Several of the children were diagnosed with the flu. 

enact [maekt] v. 

To enact something means to make it into a taw. 

— * The council enacted a law that would only allow buses to drive downtown. 

federation [fedareifan] n. 

A federation is a group of states or businesses working for a common cause. 

-* The United Nations is a federation designed to prevent war, disease, and famine. 

grOSS [grous] odj. 

If something is gross, then it is disgusting. 

-* The food was so gross that the dog couldn’t eat it without feeling sick. 

humane i/7ju.meinl adj. 

If something is humane, then it is good and kind. 

-+ Helping build homes for poor people is very humane 



intolerable [intblarabsl] adj. 

If something is intolerable, then it is so bad that people cannot bear it. 

-» The weather was so intolerable that I had to put on my warmest clothes. 

needy ini dij adj 

If someone is needy, they are very poor. 

— * After he lost his job, he became very needy. 

onset [ansei] n. 

The onset of something unpleasant is the beginning of it. 

— At the onset of the battle, the enemy wasn’t prepared for such a large attack. 

pledge [pledsl v. 

To pledge means to make a promise to do something. 

-* Her mother pledged that she would find her daughter’s lost kitten. 

prohibit [prounibit] v. 

To prohibit something means to not allow it. 

— * She prohibited the students from speaking until their work was done. 

rash [raej] n. 

A rash is an infected area of the skin with redness, bumps, itching, or dryness. 
-* The new perfume left a horrible rash on my skin. 

render [rendarl V. 

To render something means to make it become something else. 

-* His report was rendered unimportant by the release of new information. 

smallpox [smo Ipdks] n. 

Smallpox is a disease that causes tiny bumps on the skin and high fevers. 

-• When she saw the tiny bumps, she thought her son might have smallpox. 

transmit ItrsensmitI v. 

To transmit something means to pass it from one person or place to another. 

-* The radio tower transmits a signal to all the radios in a 20-kilometer radius. 

VOW [vaul V. 

To vow means to make a promise to do something. 

-* Before they are allowed to work, all senators must vow to never accept bribes. 



Exercise 1 


Choose the one that is similar in meaning to the given word. 


1. federation 
a. motion 

b. union 

c. suction 

d. tension 

2. render 
a. stop 

b. tear 

c. rent 

d. make 

3. smallpox 
a. disease 

b. match 

c. arrive 

d. hide 

4. curb 
a. drain 

b. excuse 

c. prevent 

d. breathe 

5. diagnose 
a. smell 

b. continue 

c. extend 

d. identify 

6. certify 
a. apply 

b. reduce 

c. confirm 

d. listen 

7. rash 
a. pants 

b. bumps 

c. lists 

d. pies 

8. needy 
a. poor 

b. sweet 

c. moist 

d. short 

9. onset 
a. fork 

b. show 

c. light 

d. start 

10. collaborate 
a. cooperate 

b. estimate 

c. understand 

d. determine 


Exercise 2 


Choose the one that is opposite in meaning to the given word. 

1. enact 



a. open 

b. travel 

c. cancel 

d. 

recline 

2. 

intolerable 
a. chewable 

b. washable 

c. bearable 

d. 

honorable 

3. 

pledge 
a. lie 

b. write 

c. throw 

d. 

fall 

4. 

counteract 
a. pretend 

b. arrange 

c. support 

d. 

repair 

5. 

vow 

a. command 

b. gather 

c. elect 

d. 

deceive 

6. 

prohibit 
a. examine 

b. undo 

c. allow 

d. 

chew 

7. 

transmit 
a. ride 

b. hold 

c. dig 

d. 

burn 

8. 

gross 
a. little 

b. similar 

c. powerful 

d. 

pretty 

9. 

compile 
a. tower 

b. scatter 

c. mound 

d. 

dinner 

10. 

humane 
a. hairy 

b. kind 

c. close 

d. 

cruel 


Exercise 3 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. The new law will make the schools less effective at teaching certain subjects. 


2. Some countries have a larger population of poor citizens than other countries do. 


3. The teachers c ollected the names of all the students who passed the test in her book. 


4. If you touch that plant, you might get a sore and i nfected area of skin that itches badly. 


5. The doctor identified her illness as being only a mild stomach flu. 


6. I don’t like those kinds of movies because they have scenes that are really disgusting. 


7. Many diseases are passed from one person to another when they shake hands. 


8. The companies agreed that it would be cheaper to ship the fruit if they formed a group. 


9. Her treatment of the patients was good and kind, and they seemed to heal much faster. 


CO 

aa 


10. The two artists decided to work together on their next series of sculptures. 


The End of Smallpox 

Smallpox was once the most deadly disease in the world. During the 1800s, more than 
20 million people got the disease every year. Of those, nearly half died. At the onset of 
smallpox, people suffered from high fevers, headaches, vomiting, and aching muscles. Yet 
the worst symptom of all was an intolerable rash that caused irritation on the entire body. 
Those who survived the disease were often rendered blind or left with gross scars on their 
face and body. 

Today, however, cases of smallpox are very rare due to the work of many countries during 
the late 1900s. This federation of countries collaborated to completely destroy smallpox. 
Early in the century, wealthy countries in Europe and North America had developed a 
substance that made the body immune to smallpox. They had required all their citizens to 
get this vaccine to counteract the disease. Hence, the people of these countries no longer 
had to worry about smallpox. 

However, many of the needy people in poorer parts of the world still suffered from the 
disease. Their countries could not afford the vaccine nor supply enough doctors to curb the 
spread of smallpox. 

In 1950, the wealthier countries ofthe world vowed to free the world of the disease. They 
pledged to supply the vaccine to any country that could not afford it. Scientists compiled 
lists of areas where the disease still thrived. Then doctors diagnosed 
people who had the disease in these areas. They enacted laws that 
prohibited people with smallpox from mixing with those who did 
not. In this way, they could not transmit the disease to others. 

Then the doctors gave all of them the vaccine. 

It took a long time and a lot of work. But nearly thirty years 
later, on December 9, 1979, a group of scientists certified 
that smallpox had been successfully stopped. The humane 
efforts of people from all over the world had accomplished 
a great task. 




V 






Reeding Comprehension 



PART O Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. In the 1800 s, more than 20 million people were diagnosed with smallpox each year. 


2. Smallpox rendered people bald and caused an intolerable rash that left gross scars. 


3. Laws were enacted to prohibit sick people from mixing with healthy people. 


4. The wealthier countries pledged to give North America a vaccine to counteract 

smallpox. 


5. The humane efforts of people everywhere helped to successfully stop smallpox. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. What did people suffer from at the onset of smallpox? 


2. What did the federation of countries collaborate in order to do? 


3. Why couldn’t the needy peoples’ countries curb the spread of smallpox? 


4. What did doctors do to help reduce the spread of smallpox? 


5. Who certified that smallpox had been stopped in December of 1979? 





UNIT 



Word List 


camouflage |ksem8fld:3) n. 

Camouflage is something used to hide people and things. 

-» The green and brown camouflage was best used for hiding in forests and jungles. 

Contemplate [kantampleit] v. 

To contemplate something means to think about it. 

— ► Mark took a moment to contemplate the math problem before solving it. 

contend Ikantend] v. 

To contend with something means to struggle to overcome it. 

-* Stacy had to contend with a learning disability throughout high school. 

COt [kut] n. 

A cot is a small portable bed. 

-» At the camp, the boys' cabin was lined with cots. 

enlist [enlist] V. 

To enlist means to join the military. 

-* In their final year at school, the students were asked to enlist in the military. 

frontier [frAntier] n. 

A frontier is a border between two regions or countries. 

— A fence was built along the frontier where the river curved. 

handbook [hasndbuk] n. 

A handbook is an item that gives specific information or instructions. 

— ► If you look at the handbook, it will tell you which wires to connect to the TV. 

hesitant [hezeiant] adj. 

If someone is hesitant, then they are not sure or slow in acting or speaking. 

-* Though he knew the answer, he was hesitant to say it because he might be wrong. 


lUSh [Uj] adj. 

If something is lush, then it is full of a variety of large, healthy plants. 
-» The lush jungle was filled with plants, trees, and vines. 


marrow [maerou] n. 

Marrow is the soft substance in the center of bones. 

-* Dissolved marrow is a common ingredient in soups. 



Outfit Outfit] n. 

An outfit is a set of clothes worn together, often for a certain job or event. 

-♦ Kelly’s new outfit made her look so glamourous. 

paw [pD-.l n. 

A paw is an animal’s foot that has claws or soft bottoms. 

-» The kitten cleaned its paws with its tongue. 

quiver [kwivar] V. 

To quiver means to tremble or shake. 

-* The flame on the candle quivered whenever someone opened or closed a door. 

Splendid [splendid] adj. 

If something or someone is splendid, then they are very good. 

-* From his head down to his shoes, his clothes looked splendid. 

stray [strei] v. 

To stray means to go in a wrong direction and often become lost. 

-* He found himself lost because he had strayed from the tour group. 

substantial Isabstaen/al] adj. 

If something is substantial, then it is of great importance, size, or value. 

— ► The bank said that he owed it a substantial amount of money. 

torch [to.rtjl n. 

A torch is a stick with one end on fire that can be carried in order to give light. 
-» He grabbed a piece of wood and stuck it in the fire in order to make a torch. 

tract [traekt] n. 

A tract is a large area of land. 

-♦ On the other side of the mountains was a long tract of forest. 

vigil lvid3al] n. 

A vigil is a period of watchful attention at night for a specific purpose. 

-» He had a vigil in front of the tomb for three days. 

weary [wian] adj. 

If someone is weary, then they are tired. 

— * Jane was weary after a long day of work. 


Exercise 1 


Choose the one that is similar in meaning to the given word. 


paw 

a. father 

b. foot 

c. fort 

d. fashion 

cot 

a. chamber 

b. bed 

c. fabric 

d. hut 

camouflage 
a. disguise 

b. funny 

c. tired 

d. scared 

lush 
a. shelf 

b. poem 

c. weather 

d. green 

substantial 
a. backward 

b. majestic 

c. large 

d. comfortable 


Exercise 2 


Fill in the blanks with the correct words from the word bank. 

MHHD 

camouflage outfit weary handbook lush 

torches paw vigil enlist contemplated 


At first, he didn’t know to which animal the l ’s print belonged. 

But after he looked it up in the 2 , he knew what it was. 

He decided to 3 in the army. 

After he was done signing the papers, he dressed in his new . 

She was supposed to keep a(n) 5 all night. 

However, she soon became 6 and fell asleep. 

Because the forest was so 7 , it was dark inside even during the day. 

So, in order to see the path, the explorers had to light theirs . 

He 9 how to get the stains out of his favorite suit. 

At last, Mark decided to wear another 10 . 


Exercise 3 



Choose the one that is opposite in meaning to the given word. 


contend 
a. give up 

b. ready 

c. quick 

d. ugly 

substantial 
a. bright 

b. runny 

c. small 

d. handsome 

hesitant 
a. visible 

b. certain 

c. colorful 

d. broken 

splendid 
a. night 

b. whale 

c. terrible 

d. skin 

enlist 
a. resign 

b. erase 

c. boil 

d. increase 


Write C if the italicized word is used correctly. Write I if the word is used incorrectly. 


1. I am so weary. The loud music kept me awake most of last night. 

2. The pages in the book were quivering with sheer horror. 

3. Bill was hesitant to speak to his teacher. But after thinking about it, he talked to her. 

4. You can tell that the bones are old because they don’t have any marrow left in them. 

5. I have five siblings. We often contend with each other for our parents’ attention. 

6. After the meal, Father strayed the bill, and we left. 

7. Mountains divide the northern frontier from the southern plains. 

8. He parked the car in the cot but didn’t notice he was on the wrong street. 

9. I installed a new tract in the bathroom today. 

10. I had to contemplate what I was going to do with my life. 


-83 


The Coward’s Lesson 


Tom was easily frightened. He enlisted in the army because he thought the military 
would teach him courage. And though he needed courage, he never imagined how he 
would learn it. 

During a march across a tract of wilderness near his country’s frontier, Tom strayed 
from his squad. He had stopped to gaze at a splendid view of a lush valley. When he 
turned around, his squad was gone. He searched for them, but because their outfits had 
camouflage, he couldn’t find them. 

It was getting dark, and Tom grew weary. All he had was a knife, a boomerang, and his 
handbook. He made a camp for the night. It was cold, and the ground was hard. He wished 
he had his cot and a blanket. Instead, he made a fire, wrapped himself tightly in his jacket, 
and fell asleep. 

A loud noise roused him from his sleep. "What was that?” he wondered. 

Then he noticed it. An animal of substantial size had left a print from its paw in the dirt. 

He sat closer to the fire and looked into the darkness. He 
imagined a large beast jumping from the gloom and 
attacking him. He shook so much from fear that 
it felt like the marrow in his bones quivered. 
Tom contemplated many different 
plans. He was hesitant to act. He decided 
to stay by the fire, but during his vigil, he 
heard more noises. 

He couldn’t contend with his fear 
any longer. He knew what he had to 
do. He made a torch and followed 
the prints. He heard a twig snap very 
close ahead, but he bravely went 
on. Seconds later, he discovered 
what had scared him. It was only a 
kangaroo. 

Tom went back to his camp and 
slept. In the morning, he found 
his squad. He had finally learned 
courage. He learned that he had 
to confront his fear in order to 
conquer it. 





PART © Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Tom strayed from his squad to gaze at a splendid view of a lush forest near the frontier. 


2. Tom couldn’t find his squad on the tract of wilderness because their outfits had 

camouflage. 


3. All Tom had with him was his cot, a boomerang, and his handbook. 


4. A monster of substantial size left a print from its paw in the dirt near Tom’s fire. 


5. A loud noise woke him from his sleep. 


PART © Answer the questions. 

1. Why did Tom enlist in the military? 


2. What roused Tom from his sleep? 


3. What caused Tom to shake so much that the marrow in his bones quivered? 


4. Though he contemplated many plans, he was hesitant to act. What did he finally decide to do? 


5. During his vigil, what could Tom not contend with any longer? 




c n 

m 







Word List 


adhere isdhisH v. 

To adhere means to act in the way that a rule or agreement says is right. 

-* If the new employees wish to succeed, they must adhere to the boss’s rules. 

administer [administa/ - ] v. 

lo administer means to take responsibility for organizing something. 

-» The teacher’s assistant will administer the test. 

Compassionate [kampsejanit] odj. 

When people are compassionate, they feel pity and sympathy for others. 

-* The compassionate nurse tried to make the sick man feel comfortable. 

Contaminate IkantaemaneitJ v 

To contaminate something means to put dirty or harmful chemicals into it. 

-* The lake was contaminated when pollutants entered into the water. 

deficiency [diiijensii n. 

A deficiency is a lack of something, especially something that is needed. 

-» Your snack has a deficiency of any real nutrients. 

epidemic [epsdemik] n. 

An epidemic is an outbreak of a disease that spreads quickly. 

-» It was difficult to stop the flu epidemic. 

hazard [haeza/xl] n. 

A hazard is something that could be dangerous to a person’s health or safety. 
-» Smoking cigarettes poses many health hazards. 

imperative limperativ) adj. 

When something is imperative, it is extremely important and must be done. 
-♦ It was imperative for him to find a job. 

intestines [intestinz] n. 

Intestines are tubes through which food passes after it leaves the stomach. 
-* Whatever you eat goes into your intestines. 

manifest [maenafest] v. 

To manifest means to make something visible or obvious. 

-* The holiday season manifested joy in the children. 





B 



metabolic Imetabalik] adj 

When something is metabolic, it relates to a person’s or animal’s metabolism. 
-» People who have a low metabolic rate will gain weight. 

overcrowded [ouvarkraudid] adj. 

When a place is overcrowded, it has too many people orthings in it. 

— The lobby was overcrowded with people. 

paramount Ipaeramaunt] adj. 

When something is paramount, it is more important than anything else. 

-* The safety of passengers must be paramount when designing a car. 

practitioner [praektijanarl n. 

A practitioner is a doctor. 

— * She made an appointment with the practitioner to treat her cough. 

provision [prsvijsn] n. 

The provision of something is the act of giving it to people in need or want. 

-» That department is responsible for the provision of emergency supplies. 

replenish iripiemj] v. 

To replenish something means to make it full or complete again. 

— * We planted nearly one hundred seeds to replenish the garden after the fire. 

sterile [stem] adj. 

When something is sterile, it is completely clean and free from germs. 

-► The hospital room looked quite sterile. 

upgrade [Apgreid] v. 

To upgrade something means to improve it or make it more efficient. 

-» He upgraded to a real fancy car. 

viable [vaiabal] adj. 

When something is viable, it is capable of doing what it is intended to do. 

-* Her method of solving the math problem seemed viable. 

voluntary [valanteril adj 

When something is voluntary, it is done by choice but is not required. 

— » Many people attended the voluntary boat safety class. 


Exercise I 


Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. What can start an epidemic? 

a. A kingdom b. A virus 

c. A fire d. A storm 


2. What is found inside intestines? 

a. Books b. Students 

c. Food d. Electronics 


3. 


If you replenish an empty refrigerator, you 
a. turn the temperature down 
c. clean it with a sponge 


b. fill it with food 
d. replace the light bulb 


4. What is a hazard on a street? 
a. A stop sign 
c. A carpool lane 


b. A hole in the ground 
d. A crosswalk 


5. What can contaminate the air? 
a. A poison 
c. A mosquito 


b. A flower 
d. A flag 


6. Which of the following is the most serious to have a deficiency of? 
a. Children b. Addresses 

c. Vitamins d. Pencils 


7. What process is metabolic? 
a. Sitting quietly 
c. Sleeping 

8. What is paramount when 
a. Not getting wet 
c. Breathing regularly 

9. What needs to be sterile? 
a. A hospital room 

c, A bicycle rack 

10. What does a practitioner do? 
a. Make furniture 
c. Make laws 


b. Learning to spell 
d. Digesting food 

underwater? 

b. Holding your breath 
d. Stretching your limbs 


b. An ocean 
d. The soil 


b. Fight crime 
d. Treat the sick 


swimming 



Choose the one that is 

opposite in meaning to the given word. 



1. voluntary 
a. heavy 

b. required 

c. obvious 

d. 

nonexistent 

2. imperative 
a. unimportant 

b. faulty 

c. mastered 

d. 

chosen 

3. compassionate 
a. likely 

b. distant 

c. afraid 

d. 

uncaring 

4. sterile 
a. not fair 

b. not clean 

c. not free 

d. 

not working 

5. overcrowded 
a. empty 

b. costly 

c. silly 

d. 

bland 


Exercise 3 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. They need to i mpr ove and make more efficient the medical devices in the hospital. 

2. To save the boy, rushing into the burning house is extre mely important and m ust be done. 

3. Handing out rain jackets was a necessary act of giving. 

4. Sometimes, cold weather can be made visible or obvious in the most unlikely places. 

5. The theory seems capable of doing what it needs to do to me. 

6. You must act in a w av that is ri ght according to the rules of the game. 

7. Joining the choir will be an action that is done by choice . 

8. The amusement park was no fun because it was occupied by too many people. 

9. Who is going to take r esponsib ility for organizing the protest? 


10. The criminal was certainly not feelin g p i ty or symp athy for suffering people. 


Epidemic in Zimbabwe 

In August of 2008, a deadly cholera epidemic manifested in Zimbabwe. A severe health 
hazard caused the outbreak. There was an extreme lack of clean drinking water in the 
overcrowded urban cities. Garbage and chemicals got into the public water supplies and 
contaminated them. Since people did not have access to other sources, they had to drink 
the dirty water. 

The outbreak spread rapidly and infected almost 16,000 people. The illness caused 
extreme pain in people’s intestines. It also caused a deficiency of important fluids in sick 
people’s bodies. Without the proper fluids and minerals, metabolic processes stopped 
working correctly. People were unable to digest food properly or replenish their lost nutrients. 
If they had not received viable treatment, they would have been likely to die. It was imperative 
for help to come soon. 

However, the government of Zimbabwe was unable to provide help to its people. The 
government didn’t have a plan to stop the spread of cholera. In addition, the country was 
too poor to get clean water or medication for the sick. The people seemed to be doomed. 

Luckily, many other countries recognized the paramount need to contain the outbreak. 
Dozens of voluntary practitioners from Britain, France, the United States, and other countries 
went to Zimbabwe to treat the disease. Through the provision of sterile drinking water and 
medication, people finally got the treatment they badly needed. The compassionate doctors 
were able to save the lives of thousands. By january of 2009, the epidemic was almost 
completely contained. 

Today, the Zimbabwean government is working with other countries to prevent future 
epidemics. They are cleaning up the water supply and learning how to avoid health hazards. 
The system used to filter water is being upgraded. The government now administers the 
water supply plants and makes sure that they adhere to strict safety guidelines. Hopefully, 
future instances of cholera will be treated before they start deadly epidemics. 


eading Comprehension 


i 


PART O Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The health hazard was a lack of sterile drinking water in overcrowded urban cities. 


2. A deficiency of contaminated water caused metabolic processes to stop working correctly. 


3. It was imperative that people received viable treatment quickly. 


4. The government used to filter water is being upgraded. 


5. The government now administers water supply plants to make sure they adhere to 

guidelines. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. What paramount need did other countries recognize? 


2. When did the cholera epidemic manifest itself in Zimbabwe? 


3. Where did the voluntary practitioners come from? 


4. What were infected people unable to replenish in their intestines? 


5. What provisions did the compassionate doctors provide? 





UNIT 


1 


A 

Word List 


L 1 

1 

O 

j 



I 



amid [emidl prep. 

If something is amid something else, then it is in the middle of it. 

-* The bee was busily flying amid the flowers in the garden. 

backstage [baeksteidj] adv. 

If something happens backstage, it occurs behind a theater’s stage. 
-♦ After the show, the director went backstage and thanked the actors. 

billionaire [biljanear] n. 

A billionaire is someone who has at least one billion dollars. 

-* The sale of his inventions made the inventor a billionaire. 

brute lbru:t] n. 

A brute is someone who behaves or looks like a violent animal. 

— * My older brother can act like a brute when he doesn ’t get his way. 

clumsy IkiAmzi] ad /. 

If someone is clumsy, then they are awkward in handling things. 

-* The businessman was clumsy and dropped his work files. 



Collide ikelaidl v. 

To collide with something means to hit into it while moving. 

-* The two cars collided with each other because their drivers were not careful. 

culprit IkAlpnt] n. 

A culprit is someone who did a crime or other bad deed. 

-* The police were still searching for the culprit from the robbery. 

evacuate livsekjueiti v. 

To evacuate means to leave a place of danger to a place of safety. 

— » During the flood, many families were evacuated to higher ground. 

flammable [flasmobal] ad; 

If something is flammable, then it is able to catch on fire. 

-* Be careful with that blanket near the candle. It is extremely flammable. 

mob [mabl n. 

A mob is a large crowd of people that often wants to cause violence. 

— * The copier was destroyed by a mob of angry workers. 







premature Ipri mat/uB/-] adj. 

If something is premature, then it is done too early or before the proper time. 

-» Mark’s celebration was premature because the ball hadn’t fallen in the hole. 

resent inzent] v. 

To resent something means to have bad feelings about it. 

— » She resented the fact that she had never been able to play an instrument. 

Satire [sastaiac] n. 

A satire is a work of art that uses humor and irony to make fun of something. 

— * This book is a satire of what life was like in the army. 

scrutiny [skru.lsni] n. 

Scrutiny is the careful examination of something. 

— ♦ A scientist should always practice scrutiny with their work. 

segregate [segngeit] v. 

To segregate something means to place it in a group apart from other things. 

-* In gym class, the children were segregated into two groups: boys and girls. 

Subject Isabd3ekt] v. 

To subject someone to something means to force them to do or experience it. 

-» The officers subjected everyone to a careful search before they left the plane. 

testify [testafai] v. 

To testify means to give evidence as a witness. 

-* The judge listened while the victim testified about the robbery. 

tumult it/j mxltj n. 

A tumult is a loud and confused noise made by a large crowd of people. 

-*■ She couldn ’t hear her friend over the tumult of the other excited guests. 

underestimate lAndarestameit] V. 

To underestimate something or someone means to think they are not important. 
-* We lost the game because we underestimated the other team’s skill. 

uproar lApror) n. 

Uproar is loud noise caused by people who are very angry or upset. 

-* The fans made a great uproar when their team lost the game. 




Exercise 



Choose the one that is opposite in meaning to the given word. 


culprit 
a. sewer 

b. engine 

c. victim 

d. muscle 

segregate 
a. defend 

b. whisper 

c. combine 

d. improve 

uproar 
a. calm 

b. particle 

c. jewels 

d. substance 

clumsy 
a. helpful 

b. quick 

c. healthy 

d. graceful 

premature 
a. smart 

b. late 

c. near 

d. great 


Exercise 2 


Fill in the blanks with the correct words from the word bank. 

4 Word Bank * 

clumsy billionaire culprits flammable underestimate 

premature uproar segregated backstage amid 


When they canceled the show, there was a great 1 from the crowd. 

It was so loud that the actors could hear it 2 . 

He placed the rags 3 the pile of logs. 

The rags were very 4 and would help start the fire. 

I wouldn’t 5 that man’s class just by the way he talks and dresses. 

I’ve heard that he is actually a(n) 6 . 

It might have been 7 of her to walk so soon after the operation. 

Her movements were very 8 , and she might have hurt herself. 

The police officer 9 the people into two groups. 

One group was innocent people, and the other was the 10 . 


i 


Exercise 3 



Choose the one that is similar in meaning to the given word. 


mob 

a. broom 

b. crowd 

c. gun 

d. choice 

tumult 
a. plan 

b. gate 

c. tent 

d. noise 

brute 

a. monster 

b. camera 

c. smell 

d. temper 

resent 
a. buy 

b. lose 

c. give 

d. hate 

scrutiny 
a. tower 

b. part 

c. study 

d. dream 

testify 
a. learn 

b. solve 

c. greet 

d. declare 

collide 
a. sing 

b. crash 

c. float 

d. bake 

subject 
a. force 

b. show 

c. sleep 

d. teach 

evacuate 
a. leave 

b. suck 

c. check 

d. share 

satire 
a. supper 

b. promise 

c. coffin 

d. comedy 


Exercise 4 


Write C if the italicized word is used correctly. Write I if the word is used incorrectly. 

1. We had very little time to evacuate the building before the earthquake. 

2. The guards sometimes subjected the prisoners to unfair punishments. 

3. Some people like to watch action movies. But I enjoy a good satire. 

4. When we heard the phone collide, we thought it was our uncle calling us. 

5. We whispered very quietly in all the tumult, or someone might have easily heard us. 

6. The women loved the brute because he was so kind and gentle. 

7. My brother was one of the angry people in the mob that day. 

8. Her father had to testify in court about the car accident he saw. 

9. I tried to solve the math problem several times and finally resented it in the morning. 

10. He has several large homes and his own airplane because he’s a billionaire. 


The Brute and the Billionaire 

Hundreds of people had come to see a popular satire, but during the performance a fire 
started in the theater. The audience and actors evacuated the building. Luckily, no one was 
hurt, and the fire was soon put out. Immediately, the audience assembled into an angry 
mob and demanded to know what had happened. 

It was soon revealed that the fire had started backstage, and only two people were in the 
area at the time. One was the husband of the play’s star actress, the billionaire Henry Rich. 
The other was the theater’s janitor. Bill, a large and strong man who looked like a brute. 

The crowd segregated the two men and demanded to know who the culprit was. Most of 
the crowd thought that Bill was to blame. They felt that he had started the fire without ever 
subjecting him to any scrutiny. Bill resented this but said nothing. 

Luckily, the billionaire’s wife testified in his defense. “Your decision is premature,” she 
told the crowd. “I fell down amid the tumult while everyone fled the fire. Bill rescued me 
and carried me out of the building. I think you underestimate his character. Besides, in 
order to be close enough to save me, he couldn’t have been near the place where the fire 
began.” 

The crowd then turned their eyes to the billionaire. “He did it!” they shouted. “Make him 
pay!” 

“Wait,” the billionaire said over the uproar. “I admit that I started the fire, but it was an 
accident. I was going backstage to see my wife and was clumsy. I collided with a lamp, and 
it fell to the floor. The floor was flammable. A fire started, and I fled.” 

The mob was surprised. The man they blamed was innocent, and the billionaire was 
guilty. To pay for his error, the billionaire not only repaired the theater but had it remade to 
be better than before. 


eading Comprehension 



PART O Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The performance was a satire of Communism. 


2. The billionaire and the play’s star actress were the only two people backstage. 


3. Because Henry looked like a brute, the crowd underestimated his character. 


4. The billionaire fell down amid the tumult while everyone fled the fire. 


5. The crowd made an uproar when they learned who had started the fire. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. Why did the actors and audience have to evacuate the theater? 


2. When the mob segregated the two men, who did they first think was the culprit? 


3. Who testified in the Bill’s defense since the mob didn’t subject him to any scrutiny? 


4. What was the flammable object that caught fire when Mr. Rich collided with a lamp? 


5. Because their decision was premature, what was the mob surprised to learn in the end? 




. 1 " 



UNIT 



"7 

Word List 


i 

/ 

j 




accelerate Uekselareit) V. 

To accelerate means to increase in speed. 

-* When he stepped on the gas pedal, the motorcycle accelerated. 

anew [onjO] adv. 

If you do something anew, you do it again and in a different way. 
-* Though he had failed his driving test, he decided to try it anew. 




defect [difektl n. 

A defect is a part of something that is wrong or missing. 

-» All these bottles have a defect and must be sent back to the warehouse. 

dreary IdrianJ adi. \ 

If something is dreary, then it is dull, dark, and lifeless. 

— After the fire, this section of forest is rather dreary. 

duplicate [dju:plakeit] v. 

To duplicate something means to copy it. 

-♦ She duplicated her friend’s movements like she was in front of a mirror. 

electromagnetic [ilektroumaegnetik] adj. 

If something is electromagnetic, it is related to electricity and magnetic fields. 

— Different colors of light come from different levels of electromagnetic energy. 

electron [ilektron] n. 

An electron is a particle in all atoms that has a negative electric charge. 

-* The number of electrons in an atom determines the substance the atoms make 

glide [glaid] v. 

To glide means to fly on extended wings with little or no effort. 

-♦ When the wind is blowing, birds can glide easily through the sky. 

ingenious [ind3i:njas] adj. • 

If someone is ingenious, then they are very smart. 

-* Charles was the only person ingenious enough to repair the plane’s engines. 

innovation [inouvei/sn] n. 

An innovation is a product or an idea that is new or very original. 

-* Mrs. lohnson made a great innovation to the company’s business plan. 








innovative linouveitiv] adj. 

If something or someone is innovative, they can think in creative ways. 

— » Since Peter was so innovative, he was chosen to lead the science team. 

launch [bntfl v. 

To launch something means to make it go into motion. 

-* The boat launched from the dock and floated down the river. 

meteorological [mi:tisraad3ikal| adj. 

If something is meteorological, it is concerned with the science of weather. 

-* The thunderstorm was so large that it became a great meteorological event. 

meteorology [mi:tiaralad3il n. 

Meteorology is the science that studies the weather. 

-* In order to understand the weather, you have to study meteorology. 

penetrate IpenatreT] v. 

To penetrate something means to enter into it. 

-+ The knife easily penetrated the surface of the orange. 

propulsion [prapAIJan] n. 

Propulsion is the force that moves something forward. 

-* The propulsion lifted the rocket into the sky. 

simulate [simjaieit] V. 

To simulate something means to copy its actions or characteristics. 

-* The French language teacher could simulate the accent of a French citizen. 

Spur [spa:r] v. 

To spur someone means to urge them into action. 

-» The coach’s speech spurred her team into playing the best game of their lives. 

stimulate Istimjaieit) v. 

To stimulate something means to cause or to increase activity in it. 

— *■ Doctors sometimes use electric shock to stimulate a patient’s heartbeat. 

tenaciOUS [toneijas] adj. 

If someone is tenacious, then they do not easily give up. 

-» I’m sure that he’ll finish that difficult sale. He is very tenacious. 


Exercise 1 


Choose the one that is similar in meaning to the given word. 


1 . 

defect 



a. perfect 

b. broken 

2. 

innovation 



a. obsolete 

b. cunning 

3. 

accelerate 



a. speed up 

b. slowdown 

4. 

meteorological 



a. weather 

b. past 

5. 

dreary 



a. bright 

b. fluorescent 


c. clean 

d. magical 

c. original 

d. compatible 

c. open 

d. melt 

c. body 

d. mind 

c. frigid 

d. dull 


Exercise 2 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. You can hear because sound cau ses a ctivity in the tiny hairs on the inside of your ear. 

2 . Some worms are small enough to enter into the skin without being detected. 


3. She tried to copy the way her best friend dressed. 

4. The teacher offered the kids candy in order to urge them into finishing their homework. 

5. In science class, we learned about the particles in atoms that have a negative electric ch arge . 

6. Every time the children’s fort fell down, they built it again and better. 

7. She took classes in the scien ce tha t st udies the we athe r and became a weatherperson. 

8. The small airplane flew without anv effort through the sky. 

9. A rocket requires a lot of fuel in order to start it into the sky. 


10. Amanda is quite an intell igent girl for her young age. 


Exercise 3 


Write C if the italicized word is used correctly. Write I if the word is used incorrectly. 

1. lust when you thought you’d caught up to Brian, he’d accelerate and quickly get away. 

2. The orchestra made a very tenacious sound, and many in the audience decided to leave. 

3. Dan had duplicated the sculpture exactly. It now looked nothing like the original one. 

4. Lions are dangerous hunters. They can glide through the air to capture their prey. 

5. They had a picnic in the park and launched on small sandwiches and grapes. 

6. We made a small toy train that stimulated how real trains worked 100 years ago. 

7. Cellular phones are one of the most popular innovations in the world today. 

8. The knight’s sword could not penetrate his opponent’s armor. 

9. The thought of his warm bed spurred the traveler on through the cold night. 

10. We didn’t mind that our paintings got ruined. It was fun to start them anew. 

11. Satellites are very important for gathering meteorological data. 

12. Fish use their fins for propulsion in the water. 

13. I wish Dad wasn’t so innovative. He always comes into my room without knocking. 

14. Some metals are attracted to other metals due to an electromagnetic force. 

15. Certain kinds of light can simulate flowers into producing seeds earlier than usual. 

16. John is so ingenious. He hasn’t passed a single test so far this year. 

17. I’ve always been interested in meteors. That’s why I want to study meteorology. 

18. The lake was frightening. The water was still and dreary. 

19. Everyone who voted in the electron was given the day off of work. 

20. The new pot looked perfect. It was covered in new, shiny defects. 


The Tenacious Inventor 

A young student of meteorology was having a difficult time with an experiment. He was 
attempting to duplicate lightning in clouds. He had made a device that could simulate 
lightning. It worked by releasing an electromagnetic pulse into the cloud. This pulse, 
in turn, stimulated the electrons in the cloud’s particles. Then the electrons produced 
lightning. 

But his meteorological experiment had a major defect. He couldn’t get the device into 
the sky. 

He had tied it to balloons, but they had burst. He had shot the device from a cannon, but 
the force of the cannon had damaged it. 

“You should give up,” his friends told him. “You’ll never get that thing into the air.” 

But his friends’ criticisms only spurred him to try again. The student was very innovative, 
and at last, he thought that he had an innovation that would work. He attached wings to 
the device, and on one dreary day, when clouds blocked the light of the sun, he started his 
experiment anew. 

He placed the device on a rocket and launched it into the sky. The propulsion of the 
rocket carried the device high into the air. The rocket accelerated into the clouds and then 
released the device. It glided on its wings through the clouds, and when it penetrated 
the center of a large black cloud, it emitted the electromagnetic pulse. And just as he had 
predicted, lightning shot from the cloud! 

He called his professors, and the next day they came to watch. He successfully 
duplicated the experiment. His teachers were extremely impressed and called the student 
and his invention ingenious. 

The student was given many awards and became a famous inventor. He had not given 
up. He had remained tenacious and succeeded. 


leading Comprehension 


PART O Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The student of meteorology had bought a device that simulated lightning in clouds. 


2. The electromagnetic pulse stimulated the electrons in the cloud’s particles. 


3. The student’s friends’ criticisms spurred him to try his experiment anew. 


4. It was a dreary day when the device glided into the clouds. 


5. The propulsion of the rocket accelerated the speed of the lightning. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. What was the defect of the student’s meteorological experiment? 


2. What innovation did the innovative student use to launch his device into the clouds? 


3. Forwhom did the student duplicate his ingenious experiment? 


4. What did the device do when it finally penetrated the center of a large black cloud? 


5. What happened to the student because he was tenacious? 


i 





UNIT 



Word List 


beforehand [bifo rhoBnd] adv. 

If something is done beforehand, then it is done in advance. 

-» He packed his luggage beforehand, so he was able to leave right away. 

centigrade [senteyreid] n. 

If a temperature is centigrade, it is seated, so water freezes at 0° and boils at 100°. 
-» During the spring time, the temperature gets os warm as 26 degrees centigrade. 

chatter [tjeetad </. 

To chatter means to talk quickly about unimportant things. 

-* The children chattered in the back of the classroom. 

COncertO [kantjertou] n. 

A concerto is music for a solo instrument and played with an orchestra. 

-» The piano concerto has a section in which only the piano plays. 

condense Ikandens) v. 

To condense a gas means to make it a liquid. 

-» The cool air made tiny drops of water condense on the tops of the grass. 

cove Ikouvl n. 

A cove is a part of land where it curves inward around the sea. 

-» They hid the boat in a small cove on the south side of the island. 

deteriorate [ditianareit] v 

To deteriorate means to become steadily worse. 

— ► The nation’s economy continued to deteriorate despite the politicians’ efforts. 

exterior likstiaria/i n. 

An exterior is the outside surface of something. 

— ► The exterior of the nut was hard and woody, but the inside was soft and delicious. 

freeway tfn weii n. 

A freeway is a road with no stops where cars travel at high speeds. 

-* Once you get on the freeway, it only takes an hour to drive to my parent’s farm. 

hearty [ho/ti] adj. 

If someone or something is hearty, then they are loud and happy. 

-» The grandmother ended her story with a hearty laugh that pleased her grandchild. 




hospitable lhaspitebsl] adj. 

If someone is hospitable, they are friendly to strangers. 

-» At dinner. Dad was very hospitable to my friends. 

manor [maenar] n. 

A manor is a large house with many rooms. 

— » The manor had over forty rooms in addition to beautiful gardens. 

monastery Imdnasteri] n. 

A monastery is a building in which monks live. 

-* The monks at this monastery are famous for their bread and music. 

nursery [narssrl] n. 

A nursery is a room where babies and children sleep, play, or are cared for. 

-* The children kissed their parents goodnight and went upstairs to the nursery. 

outstretched [auistretjtl adj. 

If something is outstretched, then it is extended to its full length. 

-» The cat stood on its back legs with its front legs outstretched. 

parcel [parsell /». 

A parcel is a package of things to be carried or mailed somewhere. 

-» The parcel looked like it had been stepped on by someone. 

profile [proufail) n. 

A profile is an outline of a face, usually as seen from the side. 

— * The drawing of Olivia’s profile came out very well. 

vivacious Iviveifes] adj. 

If someone is vivacious, they are talkative and cheerful. 

-* Everyone at the party was very vivacious and having a good time. 

winding Iwaindir)] adj. 

If something is winding, then it follows a twisting course. 

-» The winding river turned and looped around the bases of the hills. 

zip [zip] v. 

To zip something means to close it with a zipper. 

-* She zipped her backpack closed after putting her books inside it. 


• • 





Exercise 1 


Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. Who is someone that would most likely be hospitable? 

a. An enemy b. A host c. A singer d. A gangster 

2. At what temperature centigrade does water freeze? 

a. 0 degrees b. 32 degrees c. 100 degrees d. 132 degrees 

3. If the mist from fog condensed, what would happen to the ground? 

a. It would be wet. b. It would be dry. c. It would be sandy, d. It would be snowy. 

A. If you are going on a trip, which is something you should do beforehand? 

a. Exercise b. Take a walk c. Throw a party d. Pack clothes 

5. Who of the following would most likely perform a concerto? 

a. A musician b. A pilot c. A swimmer d. A superhero 


Exercise 2 


Choose the one that is similar in meaning to the given word. 


1. monastery 
a. stairs 

b. currency 

c. abbey 

d. frown 

2. winding 
a. spiral 

b. stormy 

c. broken 

d. tiny 

3. cove 
a. tomb 

b. oven 

c. term 

d. bay 

4. freeway 
a. road 

b. path 

c. slow 

d. farther 

5. manor 
a. polite 

b. hut 

c. large home 

d. field 

6. parcel 

a. landscape 

b. package 

c. battery 

d. moisture 

7. nursery 

a. auditorium 

b. nurse’s lounge 

c. hospital 

d. infant’s center 

8. vivacious 
a. angry 

b. quiet 

c. cheerful 

d. tired 

9. exterior 
a. priest 

b. region 

c. bridge 

d. outside 

10. zip 

a. close 

b. toss 

c. join 

d. walk 


Exercise 3 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. They didn’t want to get covered with sand, so they relaxed on an extended blanket. 


2. The boys were talking quickly about what they were going to do that weekend. 


3. It’s easy to go past the exit when you’re driving on the road where cars driv e fast. 


4. This building used to be a house where monks lived, but now it’s used as a museum. 


5. The t wisting path that went through the mountains was beautiful to hike in the spring. 


6. The photograph showed one side of the man’s face. 


7. Their chances of escaping the room became worse as the water level continued to rise. 


8. The outs ide surface of the car looked bad, but the inside still looked new. 


9. Lisa is a very loud and happy person. 


10. I’ll remember her forever. I had never before met such a chee rful, talkative person. 


22 


• • 


The Nurse’s Lesson 

One of the children in the nursery was sick. The child’s mother, who was usually quite 
vivacious and chattered constantly, was quiet and worried. She knew that if she did not act 
quickly, the child’s condition would deteriorate. 

She summoned the children’s nurse and said to her, “The monks make a medicine that 
can cure my child’s sickness. Please, hurry tonight to the monastery and get it.” 

The nurse immediately hurried from the manor to get the medicine. The monastery was 
far away by Rabbit Cove, and there was no freeway leading to it. The only way there was to 
walk along a dark and winding trail. 

The temperature was close to zero degrees centigrade, and it was raining. Luckily, the nurse 
had grabbed her raincoat beforehand. She zipped it up and pulled the hood over her head. 

“I’ll never make it there,” she thought. “Perhaps I should return and go in the morning.” 
But she remembered the sick child and decided to continue. 

Finally, she arrived at the monastery. It was very late. She feared the monks would not 
be hospitable. But she approached the door and knocked anyway. The rain had condensed 
on the exterior of the windows by the door. All she could see was the profile of a large man 
coming to answer the door. Again, she was filled with fear. 

But the monk smiled at her when he opened the door. He took her outstretched hand 
and welcomed her with a hearty voice. The place was warm, and she heard a concerto 
playing in another room. She relaxed. 

“How can I help you?” the monk asked, and the nurse explained the situation. 

He instantly knew what to do. He grabbed a parcel of medicine and took her back to the 

manor in a carriage. The medicine worked. The 



Reading Comprehension 



PART o Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The nurse was usually a vivacious woman who constantly chattered. 


2. The nursery was far from the freeway that was near Rabbit Cove. 


3. When it started to deteriorate, the nurse zipped up the jacket she had brought 

beforehand. 


4. The temperature was close to zero degrees centigrade. 


5. When the nurse heard a concerto playing in another room, she became hospitable. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. Where did the dark and winding trail lead? 


2. Who took the nurse’s outstretched hand and welcomed her with a hearty voice? 


3. How did the nurse feel when she saw the profile of a man coming to answer the door? 


4. What had condensed on the exterior of the monastery’s windows? 


5. What was in the parcel that the nurse took back to the manor? 


t£3 





UNIT 



i 


i 


i 




airway [Eerwei] n. 

An airway is the passage by which air reaches a person’s lungs. 

-* Since he was sick, mucus would occasionally get stuck in his airway. 



Almighty fc>:lmaitl) n. 

The Almighty is a name for a god in a religion. 

-» Before eating, they thanked the Almighty for their food. 

advent Uedvent] n. 

An advent is the arrival or beginning of an important person, thing, or event. 

-* During the advent of radio, very few programs actually played music. 

constellation [kanstal6i£n] n. 

A constellation is a group of stars with a recognizable shape. 

— » That constellation in the shape of a square is named after a flying horse. 

definitive [diflnotiv] ad;. 

If something is definitive, then it is the most official. 

-* This library has the definitive collection of books on ancient Egypt. 

equate fikweit] v. 

To equate one thing with another is to compare them and consider them very similar. 
-» She equated the man’s messy appearance with a lack of responsibility. 

inhale [inheii] v. 

To inhale means to take air or a smell into the lungs. 

— ► The camper inhaled the cool and fresh mountain air and felt relaxed. 

invoke [mvouk] v. 

To invoke something is to mention it to support an argument or ask for help. 

-* Before going into battle, the soldier invoked the name of his god for protection. 

lunar [lu oar] adj. 

If something is lunar, then it is related to the moon. 

— During a lunar eclipse, Earth’s shadow darkens the moon’s surface. 

novelty [ndvaitf] n. 

A novelty is something that is new, original, or strange. 

-* Ice cream was a novelty for him since he rarely had any. 






outmoded [autmoudid] adj. 

If something is outmoded, then it is no longer in fashion or use. 

-* Black and white television sets are outmoded. 

personalize [parsanalaiz] v. 

To personalize something means to design it to meet a person’s unique needs. 
-» He personalized the woman ’s exercises to give her a better workout. 

pertain [partem] v. 

To pertain to something means to be related or connected to it. 

-♦ All of the lawyer’s questions pertained to events around the night of the crime. 

primal [praimsl] adj. 

If something is primal, then it is very basic or related to the origin of something. 
-» Cooking the food over the camp fire felt like a primal way of making a meal. 

psychiatric Isaikieetrik] adj. 

If something is psychiatric, then it is related to mental illness or its treatment. 

— * The doctor said the patient might have a psychiatric problem. 

psychiatry [saikaiatri] n. 

Psychiatry is the study and treatment of mental illness. 

-» Studying psychiatry has taught me a lot about mental illness. 

reflex [ri.fleks] n. 

A reflex is an unconscious action in which a body part responds to an event. 

-* There was a reflex when the doctor hit his knee with a rubber hammer. 

seizure lsf:sar] n 

A seizure is sudden illness in which the body loses control and shakes. 

-* Bright flashing lights can cause seizures in children. 

session [s6janl n. 

A session is a meeting at a regular time in order to discuss and solve an issue. 
-* Every three months the managers met in a session to discuss regional sales. 

Utensil [ju:tensal] n. 

A utensil is a common tool or container. 

-» It seemed that a fork was the wrong utensil for trying to eat the soup. 


t 




Exercise 


Choose the one that is similar in meaning to the given word. 

1 . lunar 

a. sun b. moon c. stars 

d. earth 

2 . reflex 
a. response 

b. delay 

c. broken 

d. squeeze 

3 . pertain 
a. piece 

b. fact 

c. describe 

d. relate 

4 . utensil 
a. horn 

b. badge 

c. spoon 

d. glove 

5 . outmoded 

a. old-fashioned 

b. new 

c. outdoors 

d. innovative 


Exercise 2 


Fill in the blanks with the correct words from the word bank. 

Ward Bank 

novelty constellation definitive personalized utensil 

pertain reflexes seizure psychiatry lunar 


The doctors thought that too much sugar caused the 1 . 

However, their findings weren’t 2 . 

A star burning at night as brightly as the moon was quite a(n) 3 . 

In fact, the 4 glow was actually not as bright. 

Those seven stars form the 5 known as the Big Dipper. 

A dipper is a(n) 6 shaped like a spoon used for getting water. 

There are many methods used in 7 to help cure mental illnesses. 

They are all 8 to the specific needs of the patient. 

The body’s 9 are too quick to be controlled by the brain. 

These actions 10 to the nerves and spine rather than the brain. 



Exercise 3 




Choose the one that is similar in meaning to the given word. 

1. inhale 


a. breathe 

b. exit 

c. sell 

d. borrow 

2. psychiatric 
a. passionate 

b. cozy 

c. mental 

d. similar 

3. advent 




a. start 

b. moment 

c. candle 

d. pipe 

4. equate 

a. prepare 

5. session 

b. drip 

c. sleep 

d. relate 

a. ocean 

b. sweater 

c. rubbish 

d. meeting 

6. invoke 




a. allow 

b. resist 

c. request 

d. divide 

7. Almighty 
a. fire 

b. capital 

c. god 

d. tower 

8. primal 
a. basic 

b. bright 

c. wooden 

d. strict 

9. airway 
a. cloud 

b. throat 

c. road 

d. plane 

10. outmoded 




a. wild 

b. whole 

c. dumb 

d. old 


Exercise 4 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. The coach designed to t heir un ique needs a program for each of the athletes. 


2. lack’s parents had a weekly meeting with his teacher to discuss lack’s schoolwork. 


3. If you look at that group of stars in the sky, what do you see? 


4. The priest asked the god to bless everyone in the church. 


5. She compare d the pain in her back to being stabbed with a knife. 


I 


Seizures Then and Now 


If a person who lived 200 years ago was treated for a seizure today, they would be 
surprised by the treatment’s novelty. That’s because doctors in the 1800s were influenced 
more by primal medical beliefs than science. 

Rather than thinking the brain caused seizures, people in the 18O0s _ ^ 

still thought they were the result of strange forces. They equated 
seizures with the work of evil spirits. Others felt that the seizures had 
a cosmic or lunar cause. They believed that the cycles of the moon 
and constellations could make someone have a seizure. 

During a session to treat a patient who had seizures, doctors 
would force the patient to invoke the grace of the Almighty. 

They thought if the patient did this, then the patient would rid 
themselves of the evil spirits causing the seizures. 

The advent of modern psychiatry occurred during the 1800s. At that time people who 
suffered from seizures were placed in psychiatric hospitals. They were treated like they 
were insane. However, none of the outmoded treatments worked. 

It wasn’t until the late 1 850s that the causes of seizures were understood. We know 
today that these causes pertain to the brain. Misfired signals from the brain cause a jerking 
reflex in the body. These usually occur when someone is very tired. 

Once the causes of seizures were known, definitive treatments were developed. Today, 
treatments range from taking pills to having surgery. Treatment is personalized according to 
the type of seizure the patient has. 

Even today, some people are unsure about seizures. Their most common mistake is 
thinking that a person having a seizure will swallow their tongue. They often shove some 
utensil in the person’s mouth. However, this doesn’t help. The utensil often blocks the 
airway and prevents the person from inhaling. Yet most of the public no longer fear people 
who have seizures. Instead, they can now help and comfort a person if they have a seizure. 




Reading Comprehension 


PART O Mark each statement T for true or for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Doctors who treated patients for seizures in the 1800s were influenced by primal 

medical beliefs. 


2. Doctors still used outmoded treatments even after definitive treatments were developed. 


3. The cause of seizures used to be equated to the work of the Almighty. 


4. Today, care for people with seizures is better because treatment sessions are more 

personalized. 


5. The cause of seizures pertain to misfired signals in the brain that cause a jerking 
reflex in the body. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. Why would someone from the past be surprised by the novelty of today’s treatments for 
seizures? 


2. How does a utensil placed in someone’s airway prevent them from inhaling? 


3. During the advent of modern psychiatry, how were people treated in psychiatric hospitals? 


4. What did some people believe constellations and lunar cycles could cause? 


5. What did doctors force seizure patients to invoke in order to treat their seizures? 


UNIT 


Word List 



adhesive [aedhisiv] n. 

An adhesive is a substance used for sticking things together. 

— ► The carpenter used an adhesive to hold the two pieces of wood together. 

adverse [aedvars] adj. 

If something is adverse, then it is harmful. 

-* Not eating healthy foods can have an adverse effect on your health. 

dependency [dipendansi] n. 

A dependency is a strong need for someone or something. 

-* The child still has a dependency on her mother. 

dump [d/\mp] v. 

To dump something means to throw it away or get rid of it. 

— * She dumped the garbage into the trash can. 

eternal [itamail odj. 

If something is eternal, then it lasts forever. 

-* She said that her love for him was eternal. 

fluctuate [fiAktfusit] v. 

To fluctuate means to rise and fall in number or amount. 

— > Prices for gasoline have been fluctuating all month. 

fro [frouj adv. 

If something moves to and fro, it moves backward and forward or side to side. 

-* Her long hair went to and fro as she swung on the swing. 

inclusion Einklu 3an] n. 

Inclusion is the act of including someone or something in a group. 

-* Her inclusion into the photo club was well received. 

intermediate [intacmi diitl adj. 

If something is intermediate, then it is in the middle of two levels, places, or times. 
— ► He selected the intermediate ski hill to begin his afternoon of skiing. 

intermittent [intanmitant] adj. 

If something is intermittent, then it happens in a way that is not constant. 

-» It was hard to focus because intermittent noises came from the workers outside. 




mentor [mentor] n. 

A mentor is a person with experience or knowledge who advises someone. 
-* The students each chose a mentor to help them with the experiment. 

phoenix [ffimks] n. 

A phoenix is an imaginary bird that burned to ashes and was reborn. 

-* Some believe the phoenix is a symbol for rebirth and a new beginning. 

photosynthesis njtousineesis] n. 

Photosynthesis is the process in which plants change sunlight and air. 

-♦ The chemical in plants that makes them green is used in photosynthesis. 

pollen [pdlanj n 

Pollen is the tiny yellow powder made in the Flowers of plants. 

-* During the spring, the pollen in the air makes some people become sick. 

regain [r.gein] v. 

To regain something means to get it back. 

-► The battery regained its power after being recharged. 

reverse invars] /. 

To reverse means to change to the opposite direction. 

-» They reversed their direction after seeing the sign. 

SWarm [sworm] n. 

A swarm is a group of flying insects. 

-» A beautiful swarm of butterflies filled the summer sky. 

texture [tekstjer] n. 

Texture is the quality of something that can be known by its touch. 

-* The texture of her skin was very soft and smooth. 

tickle [tikdi] v. 

To tickle someone is to touch them in a way that causes laughter. 

-» The mother tickled the little boy’s foot, and he screamed with laughter. 

vibrant Ivaibrant] ad; 

If something is vibrant, then it is bright and full of color. 

-* Their new shirts were a vibrant shade of red. 


PJ 


Ebf 


- 


Exercise 


Choose the one that is similar in meaning to the given word. 


1. 

reverse 



a. spell 

b. train 

2. 

adverse 



a. written 

b. harmful 

3. 

intermediate 



a. amazing 

b. safe 

4. 

regain 



a. reclaim 

b. book 

5. 

mentor 



a. flavor 

b. terror 

6. 

inclusion 



a. energy 

b. moment 

7. 

adhesive 



a. paste 

b. floor 

8. 

vibrant 



a. dangerous 

b. messy 

9. 

dependency 



a. expanse 

b. need 

10. 

swarm 



a. heat 

b. group 


c. switch 

d. camp 

c. tense 

d. blank 

c. stupid 

d. middle 

c. member 

d. length 

c. teacher 

d. painter 

c. peninsula 

d. welcome 

c. segment 

d. treasure 

c. dynamic 

d. hollow 

c. freshness 

d. tone 

c. truth 

d. ledge 


Exercise Z 


Fill in the blanks with the correct words from the word bank. 

| Word Bank^—**"«**** 

phoenix intermittent dependency texture fro 

mentor pollen adverse photosynthesis vibrant 


He enjoyed watching the l movement of the branch in the wind. 

As the branch moved to and 2 , he felt calmed. 

Her favorite magical creature was the 3 . 

The bird’s feathers were always a(n) 4 mix of red and orange. 

Actually, those flowers have a(n) 5 effect on my mother’s health. 

The 6 in it makes her sneeze. 

Mr. Roth had been a valuable 7 for so many years. 

You could feel the knowledge from the 8 of his wrinkled hands. 

Plants have a(n) 9 on sunlight. 

It’s a necessary ingredient for the process of 10 . 




Exercise 3 




Choose the one that is opposite in meaning to the given word. 

1. inclusion 

a. exclusion b. inside c. instant d. unclean 

2. regain 
a. snow 

b. break 

c. lose d. smell 

3. eternal 
a. great 

b. true 

c. flat d. brief 

4. dump 
a. gather 

b. explain 

c. solve d. glow 

5. fluctuate 
a. heal 

b. remain 

c. stutter d. choose 


Exercise 4 


Write C if the italicized word is used correctly. Write I if the word is used incorrectly. 

1. The branches moved to and fro in the breeze. 

2. Honeybees collect pollen from flowers. 

3. The meeting was eternal. It lasted only ten minutes. 

4. The adhesive on this tape doesn’t work anymore. It won’t stick. 

5. In order to get into the sports arena, we had to pay a phoenix. 

6. This past week the weather has fluctuated a lot. It’s been warm and sunny every day. 

7. Don’t touch my knee. It tickles when anything touches me there. 

8. _ She dumped the dirty water out back in the garden. 

9. My level of Spanish is only at the intermediate stage. 

10. The texture of his workload was incredible. 



The Greedy Bee 


A young bee had passed his intermediate level exams. He now knew everything about 
flowers. He understood how they used photosynthesis to make oxygen and which ones 
produced the best pollen. Bees had an important dependency on pollen. From the beginning 
of time, bees’ eternal task was to gather pollen and make honey with it. 

Since he passed his exams, the little bee had earned his inclusion in the swarms that 
gathered pollen. He was excited because he was finally allowed to leave the hive. He left 
with the next swarm and was determined to find the perfect flower. Soon he saw a large, 
vibrant flower full of pollen. He landed on a petal and walked toward the pollen at the 
flower’s center. 

Immediately, he began rolling in the pollen, gathering it on his legs and wings. The fine 
texture of the pollen tickled when it stuck to his body. It was the best experience the little 
bee had ever had. He gathered as much as he could. 

But when he was flying back home, he realized that all the pollen had an adverse effect. 
He had no control over his flight. The intermittent wind fluctuated in 
power. He was blown to and fro. One minute he was flying straight, 
and the next minute the wind had reversed his course. 

He tried to dump some of the pollen, but it acted as an adhesive. 

He couldn’t get it off. He became tired and fell to the ground. 

“What am I going to do now?” he thought, lust then, his mentor 
i landed next to him and began cleaning the excess pollen off the 

little bee. “You shouldn’t have taken so much,” his mentor said. 

Finally, with the pollen off of him, the bee easily regained his 
strength, and like a phoenix, the young bee flew back into the 
air. When he returned to the hive, he turned to his mentor 
and said, “I learned an important lesson today. I will 
i never be greedy again.” 




Reading Comprehension 


PART o Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The bees had an important dependency on pollen. 


2. The texture of the petals in the vibrant flower tickled. 


3. The little bee was blown to and fro and reversed in his direction. 


4. Because the pollen acted like an adhesive, the little bee couldn’t dump it. 


5. After his mentor helped him regain his strength, the little bee lost his ambitions and 

fell to the ground like a phoenix. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. After the intermediate exams, what did the bee know about photosynthesis? 


2. What did his inclusion in the swarms finally allow the little bee to do? 


3. What was the bees’ eternal task? 


4. How did the excess pollen have an adverse effect on the bee’s flight? 


5. What was intermittent and fluctuated in the bees’ power? 



Word List 


abolish [aboiijl v. 

To abolish something means to put an end to it, such as a system or law. 

— * President Lincoln abolished slavery in the US. 

amend [amend] v. 

To amend something means to change it to improve or make it accurate. 

-» The countries were in agreement that the treaty needed to be amended. 

aspire lespaiarl v. 

To aspire means to have a strong desire to achieve or do something. 

— * George aspired to be a doctor from a young age. 

censor [sensed v. 

To censor information means to remove it if it is rude or rebellious. 

— ► To protect innocent people, the location of the bomb was censored. 

charter [tj6:rtad n. 

A charter is a document that describes the rights of an organization or group. 

-» The company charter explained that all employees had to pay a tax. 

constitution [kanstayii:jen] n. 

A constitution is a document of principles for a government. 

-» The country’s constitution said a prime minister could only serve three terms. 

cosmopolitan [kbzmapdlaten] odj. 

When a place is cosmopolitan, it is full of people from many different places. 

-> There are dozens of different types of restaurants in a cosmopolitan city. 

disseminate [disemaneit] v. 

To disseminate information or knowledge means to distribute it. 

-* The organization disseminates information about the dangers of smoking. 

flatter [fitted v. 

To flatter people means to praise them in an effort to please them. 

— » He was just flattering me when he said that my new dress looked gorgeous. 

infamous [infamas] adj. 

When someone is infamous, they are well known for something bad. 

— * That news channel is infamous for presenting biased information. 





lame [leimj adj. 

If one is lame, they cannot walk properly due to an injury to the leg or foot. 

-* The terrible accident left many people dead and several others lame. 

limp limp] v. 

To limp means to walk with difficulty because someone’s leg or foot is hurt. 

-* After the injury, the player limped off of the field. 

Outburst lautbarstl n. 

An outburst is a sudden, strong expression of an emotion. 

-» There was an outburst of cheers when the comedian took the stage. 

pathological Ipae0a!ad3ikall adj. 

When a behavior is pathological, it is extreme, unacceptable, and uncontrollable. 
-» The pathological liar could not even tell the truth about unimportant matters. 

phenomenal Ifinomanll adj. 

When something is phenomenal, it is unusually great. 

-* The child’s ability to play the piano is nothing short of phenomenal. 

poll Ipoul] n 

A poll is a survey in which people give their opinions about important things. 

-» The poll showed that many people support the plan to stop gang violence. 

remorse inmors] n. 

Remorse is a strong feeling of sadness and regret. 

-* When I realized what I did, I felt remorse for my actions. 

secrecy ts’.krssi] n. 

Secrecy is the behavior of keeping things secret. 

— * The secrecy of the big organization made the government nervous. 

tackle [taskalj V. 

To tackle something means to deal with it in a determined and efficient way. 

-» Such social problems need to be tackled right away. 

trance [iraens] ft. 

A trance is a a state where people seem asleep and have no control of themselves. 
-* The woman’s powerful eyes often put men in a trance. 



Exercise I 


Choose the answer that best fits the question. 


1 . 

What might be abolished? 
a. A rule b. A toy 

c. A car 

d. A star 

2. 

Who tackles crime? 

a. Bankers b. Criminals 

c. Postal workers 

d. Police officers 

3. 

Who is infamous? 
a. A trusting friend 

b. An evil king 



c. A tiny puppy 

d. A newborn baby 


4. 

lfabehaviorisDatholoeical.it 
a. is envied 

b. cannot be controlled 



c. can be bad 

d. is pleasant 


5. 

Who might be lame? 
a. A healthy baby 

b. An athlete 



c. A young man 

d. Someone in a wheelchair 

6. 

A trance is most similar to 
a. dancing b. eating 

c. showering 

d. sleeping 

7. 

What is most likely to have a charter? 

a. An unknown island b. A new automobile 

c. A large company 

d. A basketball 

8. 

What might be censored? 
a. A newspaper b. A fly 

c. A cruise 

d. Cell phone 

9. 

If vour skills are phenomenal, thev are 




a. ordinary b. not appreciated 

c. in need of practice 

d. great 

10. 

Which area is likely to be cosmopolitan? 
a. A television set b. A bedroom 

c. A big city 

d. A small village 


Exercise 2 


Choose the one that is opposite in meaning to the given word. 


lame 
a. rude 

b. kind 

c. smart 

d. 

healthy 

secrecy 
a. well known 

b. hidden 

c. upset 

d. 

popularity 

abolish 
a. great 

b. start 

c. round 

d. 

caring 

remorse 
a. again 

b. grief 

c. happiness 

d. 

glow 

disseminate 
a. distribute 

b. collect 

c. open 

d. 

forget 


Exercise 3 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. His moving speech caused a huge strong, sudden expression of happy tears. 

2. The main goal of the group was to distribute information about the needs of the poor. 


3. The wounded soldier had to walk with difficulty because of a hurt foot back to the base. 


4. We excitedly watched the results of the survey in which people gi ve opinions. 


5. The boys have a strong desire to finish college in less than three years. 


6. When he saw how badly things had turned out, he felt a strong feelin g of sadnes s and regret. 


7. It is a difficult process to improve the official rulebook. 

8. Those salesmen prai se in an insincere wav people to trick them into buying useless items. 


9. The document of principles for the government was based on freedom for all people. 

10. We were immediately suspicious of the boy because of his act of keepi ng things secret. 


Write C if the italicized word is used correctly. Write I if the word is used incorrectly. 



1. The boy tackled when he slipped on the ice. 


2. Many different languages are spoken in this cosmopolitan area. 


3. The trance was a beautiful arrangement of fruits and flowers on the table. 


4. The doctor had to amend the man’s lungs to help him breathe better. 


5. The new country created a strong constitution to help guide it through the years. 




The Mayor of Sherman 


The cosmopolitan city of Sherman needed to elect a new mayor. Two men aspired to 
become mayor: Mr. Jones and Mr. Webb. Mr. Jones was a tall, handsome man. He was a 
phenomenal speaker, and the citizens loved him. However, Mr. Jones didn’t know much 
about running a city. He was a pathological liar who merely flattered people with his words. 
Mr. Webb was very different. He was a small, unattractive man. He was lame and limped 
when he walked. But he was an expert on politics and knew what was best for the people. 

The citizens of Sherman didn’t care about what the politicians had to say. 

No one listened to Mr. Webb, even though he had great ideas. They cheered 
when Mr. Jones spoke, although he didn’t talk about important things. His 
pretty words put people in a trance. All the polls predicted that Mr. Jones 
would win the election. 

When the votes were totaled, Mr. Jones won easily. 

But when he took office, he didn’t know what 
to do! He tried to hide his ignorance by 
working in secrecy. He added a law to the 
city’s constitution that prevented citizens 
from seeing the mayor. He even 
censored newspapers that tried 
to disseminate information 
about his inability to help 
the people. 

Soon, however, Mr. 

Jones became infamous 
for his poor leadership. 

There was an outburst of 
anger among the citizens. They 
were full of remorse for their 
misguided decision to elect an 
ignorant mayor. They voted to remove 
Mr. Jones and let Mr. Webb take over. 

Immediately, Mr. Webb proved that 
he was a great mayor. He abolished 
Mr. Jones’s law, and he was willing 
to talk openly with everyone. He 
tackled important issues and 
amended unfair laws in the city’s 
charter. 

The citizens learned that a 
pleasant appearance and nice 
words do not make a good leader. 

The most important qualities are 
intelligence and a desire to help 
others. 



L 



r* 

22 


Reading Comprehension 



PART Q Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Two men aspired to be mayor of the cosmopolitan city of Sherman. 


2. Mr. )ones was a pathological speaker who flattered people with his words. 


3. Mr. Webb was lame, so he limped when he walked. 


4. Mr. Webb tackled important issues and amended unfair laws in the city charter. 


5. Mr. Jones censored newspapers that tried to disseminate outbursts of anger. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. What did the polls predict after the people were put into a trance? 


2. What misguided decision did the people feel remorse for making? 


3. What was Mr. Webb willing to do after he abolished Mr. Jones’s laws from the constitution? 


4. What did the phenomenal speaker become infamous for? 


R 


5. What was Mr. Jones trying to do by working in secrecy? 




UNIT 


Ward List 



coward [kausrd] n. 

A coward is a person who lacks courage to do risky or dangerous things. 

— » A firefighter cannot be a coward. They have to be able to act quickly. 

delete [diiitl v. 

To delete something means to remove or erase written material. 

-» Several lines had been deleted from her speech. 

firsthand [fa rsthaend] adj. 

If something is firsthand, then it is from an original source. 

-* If you want firsthand knowledge, ask someone who sow it. 

earnest [a. mist] adj. 

If someone is earnest, then they are honest. 

-» The child was very earnest when she told her mother how she broke the dish. 

ethnic [eenikl adj 

If something is ethnic, then it is related to a group with a similar culture. 

-» Many sections of the city are home to different ethnic communities. 

exclude [Iksklud] v. 

To exclude someone means to not accept them into a group. 

— » Carol was excluded from the contest because her friend was a judge. 

fluent Ifluant] adj 

If someone is fluent in a language, then they are able to speak it very well. 

— * She was so fluent in German that you’d have thought she was from Germany. 

imperial limptarieil adj. 

If something is imperial, then it is of, or related to an empire. 

— * These old imperial coins were once used in the Roman Empire. 

inclusive itnwu sivi adi 

If something is inclusive, then it is open to all groups and people in society. 

-► A more inclusive event would have allowed children to attend. 

legislature [led3isle<t|a r] n 

A legislature is the section of a government that makes laws. 

-» The senator had served ten years in the national legislature. 




k(ik 






linguistic [liqgwistik] adi. 

If something is linguistic, then it is concerned with language. 

-* A linguistic way of studying culture focuses on words within that culture. 

monolingual [mdnalingwal) adj 

If someone is monolingual, then they speak only one language. 

-* In today’s global economy, being monolingual limits your opportunities. 

nationality [ncejsnaelati) n. 

Nationality is an identity based on the nation from which you come. 

-» His nationality is German, but he speaks French, Spanish, and Korean. 

patriot [peitrist] n. 

A patriot is someone who loves, supports, and defends their country. 

— Every year young patriots join their countries’ militaries. 

prosecute Iprasakju t] v. 

To prosecute someone means to take legal action against them. 

-* They were prosecuted for fishing in the river without a permit. 

racial [reijel] adj. 

If something is racial, then it is related to a race or races. 

-* The differences between racial groups are physical characteristics and culture. 

solemn adj 

If something is solemn, then it is serious and honest. 

— ► The professor preferred a solemn relationship between him and his students. 

solidarity [soladaeratil n. 

Solidarity is a union formed from common responsibilities or interests. 

-» All the citizens came together in a show of solidarity to create change. 

tact Itaektl n 

Tact is the ability to avoid offending people when dealing with problems. 

-* Since both sides would not agree, it required someone with tact to make peace. 

undermine Undv-mainl v. 

To undermine someone means to betray or weaken their efforts or authority. 

-* The documents helped to undermine the workers ’ trust in their bosses ' honesty. 


in 


£2 



Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. No matter how much she begged, the older girls still did not accept Suzy. 


2. Language based approaches are the best way to learn about a culture. 


3. Constant changes were weakening the project’s chances of being finished on time. 


4. The boy made a serious and honest promise to his parents that he would never again cheat. 


5. The movie director gave the actors and actresses a pers onal and original view of the newly 
completed movie. 


6. Everyone knew that Luke studied Chinese. But no one knew he was able to speak it very 
well. 


7. The teacher was waiting for one of the students to be honest about what had happened on 
the playground. 


8. The Internet has made talking to people everywhere very natural. As a result, having a sense 
of common support for your ideas is easy. 


9. Though he looked Greek, his identity based on the country he came from was Mexican. 


10. Today, no one lives in the old royal palace. Instead, it’s part of the university. 



Exercise 2 


Write C if the italicized word is used correctly. Write I if the word is used incorrectly. 

1. Peter is so earnest. He made more money than anyone I know. 

2. If you like ethnic foods, then you like foods from other cultures. 

3. Though it’s the same language, there are linguistic differences between the two 

areas. 

4. The patriot is an amazing bird. It can repeat anything you tell it. 

5. If you want someone to care for your cattle, you should call a coward. 

6. The boy said that the test was unfair, and his classmates showed solidarity and 

agreed. 

7. The king said the princes had undermined his authority when they issued new 

orders. 

8. We deleted all the words that were spelled wrong. 

9. “I’m sorry you can’t eat here. This restaurant is inclusive." 

10. The road going to the farmhouse is monolingual, so watch cars coming your way. 

11. He had seen the battle firsthand in old movies. 

12. If someone goes to court, then they are judged by the legislature. 

13. This city’s history is important. It was once the imperial capital. 

14. His friends had left him alone in the library, but he didn’t mind being solemn. 

15. The criminals were prosecuted for the crimes they had committed. 

16. That college excludes anyone who has low test scores. 

17. Many people wonder about her nationality. However, he knows where she’s from. 

18. The mothers covered their children’s heads because the rain was so fluent. 

19. I liked all the cars, but I bought the racial car because it was the fastest. 

20. His method had a lot of tact. Soon, everyone agreed with his point of view. 


The Editor’s Choice 

A newspaper editor sat at his desk and stared at the flashing cursor on his computer’s 
screen. He didn’t know if he should delete the article he had just written or go ahead and 
publish it. He was scared and filled with doubt. 

The empire had passed a new law stating that citizens could only use the imperial 
language. The editor disagreed with the law and decided to write an article about why it was 
wrong. He felt that the new law excluded people of different nationalities and racial and 
ethnic backgrounds. He had firsthand knowledge of what it feels like not to be fluent in the 
imperial language because he was from a remote part of the empire. 

He felt that the empire shouldn’t be monolingual and should be more inclusive. Yet he 
was afraid that he would get in trouble for having this belief. Many would say that he was 
not a patriot - that he didn’t love the empire. But he didn’t wish to undermine the authority 
of the empire. He wanted to argue that the empire could be stronger if it accepted people of 
various cultures and beliefs. 

At last, he decided to stop being a coward and to be earnest about how he felt. He wrote 
the article. It wasn’t rude or angry, but rather, very solemn and intelligent. The next day it 
was published in all the papers. 

Everyone was impressed by his tact and showed solidarity with his ideas. He expected 
to be arrested any day, but the police never came. Surprisingly, instead of being prosecuted, 
he became a hero. The legislature changed the law, and people from many linguistic 
backgrounds praised him. 



PART o Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The editor felt the imperial law excluded people of different nationalities and racial 

and ethnic backgrounds. 


2. The legislature prosecuted the editor for undermining the authority of the empire. 


3. The editor was not fluent in the empire's language. 


4. Everyone was impressed by the editor’s tact and showed solidarity with his ideas. 


5. The article wasn’t solemn and intelligent, but rather rude and angry. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. Where was the editor sitting when the cursor was ready to delete his article? 


2. After the editor decided not to be a coward but be earnest, what did he do? 


3. If the empire accepted other languages, what did the editor think would happen? 


4. Why was the editor afraid to say that the empire should be more inclusive? 


m 


£3 


5. What did the editor write about being vocal? 









Word List 


allocate Iselakeit] v. 

To allocate something means to put it aside for a certain purpose or person. 

-♦ The government allocated $100 million to aid the disaster relief effort. 

appetizing [aepitaizir)] adj. 

When food is appetizing, it looks and smells very good. 

— * The appetizing plate of cookies was gone in half an hour. 

blizzard IbllzsvdJ n. 

A blizzard is a severe snow storm with strong winds. 

— * We did not dare to go outside during the terrible blizzard. 

cavity Iksevsti) n. 

A cavity is a hole or space in something. 

— » There was a small cavity in the wall of the cave where an animal lived. 

clockwise [kldkwaiz] adv. 

If something moves clockwise, it moves in a circle in the same direction as a clock. 
-» Turn the screw clockwise to tighten it. 

concentric [kansentrik] adj. 

When circles or rings are concentric, they have the same center. 

— * The target was a series of concentric circles. 

courtesy (konesi) n. 

Courtesy is the excellence of manners or social conduct. 

— ► Jenna always behaves with great courtesy when people visit her home. 

Crisp knspl adj. 

When food is crisp, it is hard or has a hard surface in a way that is pleasant. 

-* My favorite snack is a bag of crisp, delicious potato chips. 

discord [diskord] n. 

Discord is disagreement or fighting between people. 

— * There was much discord between the experts on the talk show. 

frigid [frid3id] adj. 

When something is frigid, it is extremely cold. 

-» We decided not to go on the hike because the weather was too frigid. 


s 





generate [djenareit] V. 

To generate something means to cause it to develop or begin. 

-* The mayor promised to generate new jobs and programs to help the poor. 

glacial (gleijel) adj. 

When something is glacial, it relates to large masses of ice that move slowly. 
-♦ Penguins thrive in the glacial regions of Antarctica. 

interchange [mtwtj&ndji «. 

An interchange of ideas between people is a discussion of each person’s idea. 
— * There was an interchange of ideas between the groups. 

locker Ubkar) n. 

A locker is a small cabinet with a lock where people store their possessions. 

-* / keep my school books in my locker. 

multicultural [mAitikMtiarail ad 

When something is multicultural, it relates to many different cultures. 

-» Everyone was welcomed to attend the multicultural celebration. 

Omission [oumilen] n. 

An omission is something that has been left out or not done. 

-* Mike was upset because of the omission of his name during the ceremony. 

oversee [ouvarsi.l v. 

To oversee something means to make sure that it is being done properly. 

-* His job was to oversee the progress of the construction project. 

pierce [piers] v. 

To pierce something means to make a hole in it using a sharp object. 

-» The arrow pierced the target in the very center. 

replicate [repioxeit] v. 

To replicate something is to do it in the exact same way as someone before. 

-» / would love to replicate my father’s achievements in school. 

Wavy weivi] adj 

When something is wavy, it is not straight but has a series of curves. 

-» The child drew wavy lines all over the piece of paper. 


3 


Exercise 1 


Choose the one that is opposite in meaning to the given word. 


1. frigid 
a. happy 

b. hot 

c. open 

d. clear 

2. wavy 
a. straight 

b. pretty 

c. likely 

d. quick 

3. crisp 
a. more 

b. slow 

c. nice 

d. soft 

4. replicate 
a. flight 

b. original 

c. friend 

d. agreement 

5. allocate 
a. take away 

b. freeze 

c. close 

d. fight 


Exercise 2 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. No one else can open my small cabin et with a lock. 

2. How can we prevent argument and disagreement in the future? 

3. The brave travelers were not stopped by the snow storm wit h strong winds . 

4. The organizers made sure that the parade was related to many different cultures. 

5. The thief hid the money in a small hole in the wall. 

6. I thought the hosts showed a lot of politeness and respect for others. 

7. It was her job to make sure everything w as b eing d one properly on the project. 

8. What can we do to cause the beginning or developme nt of interest in our product? 

9. People cannot withstand extreme ly cold temperatures without clothing and shelter. 


10. )ohn used a knife to make a hole in the thick rubber. 



Exercise 3 



Write C if the italicized word is used correctly. Write I if the word is used incorrectly. 

1. This is a multicultural holiday. People from all over the world celebrate it. 

2. The valuables are kept in a secure locker. 

3. If things move clockwise, they move in reverse. 

4. The doctor pierced his skin with the needle to draw blood. 

5. The scientist tried to replicate the experiment and compare the results. 

6. The cavity quickly traveled down the stream and to the lake. 

7. Th e frigid soup burned my tongue! 

8. School was cancelled today because of the horrible blizzard outside. 

9. The appetizing scene made everyone in the theater cry. 

10. After a brief interchange of ideas, we were ready to begin the new project. 

11. Make sure to include an omission of our goals in the presentation. 

12. The charity raised money for all of the wavy children in the city. 

13. Tim was chosen to oversee the progress of the building crew. 

14. The glacial dog loved to run and chase the ball in the park. 

15. We need to generate a new plan because this one isn’t going to work. 

16. He was not pleased with the movie. He thought it was too concentric. 

17. The brothers cannot work together. There is always discord between them. 

18. The crisp lettuce went well with the sandwich. 

19. The mother was disappointed with the extreme courtesy her children displayed. 

20. Seats will be allocated to the people who are the first to arrive. 

3 


The Ice House 

Last year, Erik constructed one of the world’s strangest houses in the glacial landscape 
of northern Sweden. He called it the Ice House: a house made entirely of ice and snow. All 
of the beds, chairs, tables, and walls are cold, hard sculptures of ice. 

A group of architects and volunteers from all over the world traveled to the site of the Ice 
House and began its construction. The multicultural group journeyed through blizzards and 
frigid temperatures to reach the site. Once the builders arrived, there was an interchange 
of ideas, and tools were allocated to each worker. An expert was selected to oversee the 
building process to make sure there was no discord between the workers. Once a plan 
was generated, they got right to work. The design was very unique; the builders couldn’t 
replicate the design from normal houses. 

The first step was to build the walls and ceiling. The builders used a metal frame to help 
them build the structure. After the ice was in place, the frame was removed. The builders 
then created furniture and art pieces. Designs were carved into each piece. One worker 
carved big wavy lines, and another made tiny clockwise, concentric circles. Finally, the 
workers carved small cavities in the roof and inserted colored lights. When the work was 
finished, the beautiful house was ready for a resident to enjoy. 

Living in the Ice House is an experience like no other. Erik stores his belongings in an 
ice locker and lays out a sleeping bag on his ice bed. At dinner, he dines on a delicious 
salad with crisp toppings. And for the main course, he enjoys appetizing fish caught from 
a nearby river. The fish are pierced with icicles and served on ice plates. After dinner, he 
gets ready for a cold night. The omission of heaters can be 
too much for his visitors sometimes. Luckily, there 
are warm rooms nearby, as a courtesy to 
people who get too cold. 




Reading Comprehension 


PART o Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. A multicultural group traveled through blizzards and frigid temperatures to reach the site. 


2. Erik dines on crisp, appetizing fish that are pierced with icicles. 


3. The expert who oversaw the process made sure there wasn’t discord in the glacial 

landscape. 


4. One worker carved big wavy lines, and another made tiny clockwise, concentric circles. 


5. The builders replicated the design from normal houses. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. What was allocated to the workers after an interchange of ideas? 


2. What was put in cavities in the roof? 


3. What happened when a plan was generated? 


4. What is provided as a courtesy when guests get too cold? 


5. What did Erik put in his ice locker? 





— 146 


UNIT 


Word List 



abide [aoaidl v. 

To abide by something, like a rule, means to obey it. 

-♦ If you want to play the game with us, you must be willing to abide by our rules. I 

conversion (kanva r^an) n. 

Conversion is the act of changing something into a different state or form. 

— The city discussed the conversion of the parking lot into a skateboard park. 

Cram [krseml /. 

To cram things means to put them into a place that can barely contain them. 

-* He crammed all of his shirts into the top drawer of the dresser. 

defer [d.far] 

To defer means to arrange for an action to happen at a later time. 

— » The girl was very sleepy, so she chose to defer her bath until morning. 

export [ikspart] v. 

To export products means to sell them to other countries. 

-* The United States exports many cereals and grains. 

flime [fju rn] n. 

Fumes are unhealthy smoke and gases that are made by fires or chemicals. 

-► The engine put unpleasant, black fumes into the air. 

habitual [habitjuall adj 

When something is habitual, it is a behavior that a person usually does or has. 

-» The man was a habitual liar who was incapable of being honest with the police 

justify [d3AStatai| v. 

To justify something means to show or prove that it is necessary. 

-♦ The government tried to justify its decision to bring the country into a war. 

output [autputl n 

Output is the amount of something that a person or thing produces. 

-• The boss hired more workers to increase the factory’s output of products. 

overpopulation louvarpapjuleilan] n. 

Overpopulation is the state of having too many people in an area. 

— » The organization is concerned with overpopulation of the world. 




patent [psetant| n. 

A patent is a right to be the only person allowed to make or sell a new product. 
-» He quickly established a patent for his brilliant invention. 

penalize [pi .naiad v. 

To penalize someone means to punish him or her. 

— ► The team was penalized when they broke the rules. 

petroleum Ipitrouliam] n. 

Petroleum is a liquid natural resource from which many fuels are made. 

— * The petroleum at that factory is used to make gasoline. 

prototype iproutataipl n. 

A prototype is a new machine that is not ready to be made in large quantities. 

-* He introduced his prototype to the motorcycle company. 

Scrap [skraepl n. 

A scrap of something is a small amount of it. 

— * Chris liked to use many scraps of paper when thinking up ideas. 

Sector Isekted n. 

A sector is a part of a country’s economy in a specific type of industry. 

-> We learned about just a few of the factories within the manufacturing sector. 

subscribe Isabskratb] v. 

To subscribe to something is to agree or to concur with it. 

-» She subscribed to the view that musical education should be kept in schools. 

subsist Isabsistl v. 

To subsist means to have the food, water, and money needed to stay alive. 

-» Some people are forced to subsist on only a few dollars a month. 

Suspend Isaspendl v. 

To suspend something means to delay or stop it from happening for a while. 

-* The oil company suspended production until it was sure the factory was safe. 

synthesis [sineosisl n. 

A synthesis is a combination of different ideas or styles. 

— * The band’s music was a synthesis of many different musical genres. 


147 


Exercise 



Choose the answer that best fits the question. 


What is needed to subsist? 


a. Rainy weather 

b. Clean water 

c. Fast cars 

d. The Internet 

What is someone penalized for? 


a. Falling in love 

b. Winning a race 

c. An invention 

d. Breaking the law 

What does a business owner justify? 


a. Her house 

b. Her decision 

c. Her workers 

d. Her family 

Which one of these uses a product made from petroleum? 

a. A sandwich 

b. A telephone 

c. An automobile 

d. A cow 

What releases fumes? 


a. An old truck 

b. A baby cat 

c. A tired worker 

d. A bicycle 


Exercise 2 


Fill in the blanks with the correct words from the word bank. 

f Ward BanA 

fumes habitual scraps prototype abide 

overpopulation patent export output sector 


Everyone was very excited about the new 1 . 

The inventor of the machine got a 2 . 

The dramatic increase of people into the city led to 3 . 

It is the most important problem in the human services 4 . 

The mother was worried that her child’s bad behavior was 5 . 

She decided on some new rules to which her child had to 6 by. 

The factory produced 5000 computers a day as 7 . 

But the machines used to make them also let out harmful 8 . 

The country prepared tons of different materials to 9 . 

However, some of the materials were just 10 . 



Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. The best theory was the one that was a combination of all the scientist’s ideas. 


2. When the power went out, he was forced to stop or delay progress on his project. 


3. The brothers believe along with other people to the opinion that socialism is best. 


4. The cutting tool was just a new machine not ready to be made in large amount s. 


5. Her job was to get all of the goods ready to sell to other countries. 


6. The chemist demonstrated the change into a different form of liquid water into gas. 


7. After the tornado, it was difficult for the family to have the food an d money needed to live. 


8. The mechanic yelled when he stepped on the sharp small amount of metal. 


9. It is the policeman’s job to make sure people do what i s right by the law. 


10. We’ll have to postpone ourvacation until next month. 


Exercise 4 


Write C if the italicized word is used correctly. Write I if the word is used incorrectly. 

1. The big city worked hard to prevent overpopulation problems. 

2. I tried to cram all of my clothes into one suitcase. 

3. The machine’s output was so great that we ran out of room to store the products. 

4. Why don’t we defer the decision until right now? 

5. The conversion over the bridge was scary. 


Preparing ofthe Future 

Overpopulation is a big problem in the world today. Too many people are crammed 
into cities and towns around the globe. Earth’s population is about 6.5 billion people. This 
number is growing every day. In just 50 years, the population will be almost 9 billion. 

Many people worry that the Earth won’t have enough resources to support so many 
people. One major reason for this is that wasting resources and polluting have become 
habitual behaviors. Industrial output results in polluting the air with dangerous fumes. 
Also, cars and machines waste a ton of important natural resources like oil and water. It’s 
possible that the Earth may become so damaged that it cannot support a large population 
of humans. 

Another issue is the lack of useful land for cultivating crops. Even today, many people 
subsist on mere scraps of food and little water. In 50 years, many experts worry that huge 
numbers of people will starve to death. So what is being done to prepare for the future? 

People are realizing they can no longer justify their wasteful behavior or defer action 
to fix it. Many car companies already have patents on prototypes for very efficient cars. 
Such cars waste no resources and produce no pollution. A conversion to clean cars means 
that petroleum can be saved for the future. In addition, the environmental sectors of many 
governments are setting strict rules for industries that pollute too much. If companies do 
not abide by the standards, they are penalized with higher taxes. In some cases, their 
operations might be suspended altogether. 

Food is also an issue that is being 
tackled. Many countries are now 
subscribing to the point of view that 
immediate action is needed. They are 
determining ways to export goods to people 
in need, so that no one goes hungry. Experts 
will continue to come up 
with ideas for the future, 
and a synthesis of these 
ideas will help to support the 
growing population. 


Reading Comprehension 



PART o Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Because of overpopulation, too many people are crammed into cities and towns. 


2. The environmental sectors of many governments are deferring strict standards. 


3. Some car companies have patents on prototypes. 


4. A conversion to clean cars means petroleum can be used right now for people. 


5. Companies that don’t abide by standards are penalized or their operations might be 

suspended. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. What will a synthesis of good ideas for the future do? 


2. What have become habitual behaviors in the world today? 


3. What prototypes do companies have patents for in the passage? 


4. What behavior can no longer be justified? 


5. What point of view are many countries subscribing to? 




UNIT 


Word List 



acrobat laekrabaet] n. 

An acrobat is a person who entertains people by doing amazing physical things. I 
-* There were acrobats at the circus that did impressive and complicated jumps. 

advocacy [aedvakasi] n. 

Advocacy is the act of supporting or recommending something. 

-* janine’s strong advocacy for the event made people want to attend. 

Communal [kamju:nl] adj. 

If something is communal, it involves a group of people. 

-* On the weekends, Theo and his son picked up trash in the communal park. 

fluid [flu id] adj. 

If something is fluid, it is smooth and moves gracefully. 

— * Boris was a famous ballet dancer because people admired his fluid movements. I 

harmonize [hbynnanaiz] V. 

To harmonize means to make different things go well together. 

-* The sweet and sour flavors of the dish harmonized well and tasted great. 

industrious [indAstriasj ad). 

If someone is industrious, they work hard. 

-* Dennis was very industrious, so he never had problems finding a job. 

inventive [invents] adj. 

When someone is inventive, they are good at creating new things. 

-* The inventive student built a robot to help her with her chores. 

judicial [dju.dijall adj. I 

If something is judicial, it is related to judges or courts of law. 

-* The laws changed the way the judicial system was structured. 

Mandarin [maendann] fi. 

Mandarin is one of the two main Chinese languages. 

-* Although John’s parents both spoke Mandarin, he could only speak English. 

metropolitan [meirapalitan] adj. 

If something is metropolitan, it relates to a large city. 

-* All of the metropolitan excitement of New York City made Rufus nervous. 






mimic [mimiK] v. 

To mimic something means to copy the way it sounds or moves. 

-* The hunter mimicked a duck’s call and shot the two ducks that called back. 

misguided [misgaidid] adj. 

When something is misguided, it is based on bad judgment or wrong beliefs. 

— ♦ The snake bit Molly during her misguided attempt to grab it. 

rehearse [nharsl v. 

To rehearse means to practice and prepare fora performance in front of people. 
— ► Vick’s band rehearsed all week before their first show. 

SCOm lsko:/n] v. 

To scorn someone means to behave without respect toward them. 

-* The criminal was scorned by everyone in the community. 

Sensory [sensari] adj. 

If something is sensory, it is related to the senses. 

-* Iris and Eric preferred the sensory thrill of watching movies in the theater. 

Staple [steipal] adj. 

If something is staple, it is standard or basic. 

-► Hamburgers, steaks and hotdogs are staple foods to cook on a grill. 

Statute [staetjii t] n. 

A statute is a law that is official and has been written down. 

The new statute made it illegal to walk dogs in the park. 

veteran [veteran] n. 

A veteran is someone who has a lot of experience doing something. 

-* Hank was the team veteran and had played in more games than anyone else. 

villain Man] n. 

A villain is an evil person who breaks the law or hurts others. 

-* The villain escaped with half of my family’s valuables. 

vine [vain] n. 

A vine is a plant that has long, twisting stems and climbs upward. 

-» The branches of the trees were covered with vines. 




ESI- 


Exercise 1 


Choose the one that is opposite in meaning to the given word. 


veteran 
a. wet 

b. amateur 

c. young 

d. vague 

harmonize 
a. exaggerate 

b. disagree 

c. lessen 

d. mark 

misguided 
a. lost 

b. lengthy 

c. common 

d. well-planned 

villain 

a. supporter 

b. thief 

c. hero 

d. loud person 

scorn 
a. respect 

b. weird 

c. delicate 

d. factory-related 


Exercise 2 


Fill in the blanks with the correct words from the word bank. 

, | Word Bank §•••• 

industrious communal rehearsed metropolitan fluid 

statutes acrobats inventive Mandarin judicial 


Stella was amazed by the performance of the 1 . 

She thought their 2 movements were beautiful. 

Dave had four siblings, so he was used to 3 living. 

They shared almost everything and were 4 about finding new uses for old 

things. 

The 5 system has many roles. 

It interprets laws and 6 and judges whether they are fair. 

The students 7 for the play every day after school. 

They were very 8 and often stayed after dark. 

9 is spoken throughout northern and southwestern China. 

However, other languages are also popular in 10 areas. 






Exercise 3 




Write C if the italicized word is used correctly. Write I if the word is used incorrectly. 

1. The animal rights advocacy group worked to protect animals. 

2. He was well-liked by people in his class. A lot of people scorned him. 

3. Going on a rollercoaster is a wild sensory experience. 

4. Items like sunscreen, towel and bathing suit are staple items needed for the beach. 

5. The hotel had a communal kitchen that the guests were free to use. 

6. The acrobat had studied biology for many years before he became successful. 

7. The audience rehearsed the play for the actors. 

8. Chris’s actions were misguided. He should have found out the facts first. 

9. The people of the small town were very metropolitan. 

10. Mandarin Chinese is said to be one of the hardest languages to learn. 

11. Kayla watched the fluid motions of the graceful bird. 

12. The statute was placed in front of the new police station. 

13. The singers harmonized during the last part of the song. It sounded lovely. 

14. After his shoelaces tore, the inventive boy used floss to tie his shoes together. 

15. Mrs. Campbell’s son was lazy and industrious. 

16. I’m interested in getting a job as a judicial officer, like my father the judge. 

17. Some insects mimic the appearance of poisonous bugs to keep predators away. 

18. The veteran gave my pet dog medicine to feel better. 

19. Long vines grew around the side of the house and covered up the front wall. 

20. The villain helped the family escape their house when it caught fire. 


Hundred Plays 

Over two thousand years ago, Chinese farmers had a problem. Even though they were 
very industrious, the weather became too cold outside to plant their staple food, rice. 

So what did they do? Since they had so much free time during the long, cold winters, the 
inventive farmers started performing tricks to entertain themselves. They used their farm 
tools and anything they could find to make their tricks more spectacular. They even twisted 
their bodies into crazy shapes and performed awesome jumps. Overtime, they became 
great acrobats, and their art form came to be known as "Hundred Plays.” 

Hundred Plays involves doing many kinds of tricks. For example, in Mandarin-speaking 
parts of China, performers do the lion dance. They wear costumes and mimic the animal’s 
movements. Early performers also did tricks on ropes and vines that were high above the 
ground. 

Even though the acrobats' fluid movements may have looked easy, they took a lot of 
work. 

Learning Hundred Plays is a communal event. A veteran of the acrobatic arts usually 
teaches younger people in the village. They spend a lot of time rehearsing. The young 
performers also learn an old philosophy. The teachings help them harmonize the sensory 
aspects of acrobatics with mental aspects. In other words, it teaches them to use their 
physical and mental strength together. 

Since the art has its origins with poor farmers, rich people used to scorn acrobats. 

They thought acrobats were villains. The rich people thought the acrobats just wanted to 
trick them. But later, their misguided opinions changed. Acrobats came to be respected 
in Chinese society. They were invited to perform in metropolitan areas as well as in small 
villages. They performed for important people, including judicial officers. Arts advocacy 
groups convinced the government to support Chinese acrobatics. As a result, there is now a 
statute that made several villages the center of training future acrobats. 


eading Comprehension 



PART Q Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The Chinese farmers became great acrobats while planting staple crops like rice. 


2. The version of the lion dance in Mandarin-speaking areas involves performers 

mimicking the movements of the lion. 


3. Chinese acrobats gain their fluid motions by rehearsing often. 


4. The art form of Hundred Plays harmonizes the sensory and mental aspects of acrobatics. 


5. Advocacy groups worked to get a statute that would protect acrobats from being scorned. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. According to the passage, what were the early Chinese farmers like? 


2. How are new acrobats trained? 


3. What were the misguided judgments about acrobats in the past? 


4. What unusual object was used by early acrobats to do tricks high above the ground? 


5. How did the location and audience of a Hundred Play change after acrobats gained respect? 




67 


UNIT 


2 ^ 



Constrain (kanstreinl v 

To constrain something means to limit its development. 

-* Jim cannot join us because he is constrained by previous plans. 

depot [di pou] n. 

A depot is a bus or train station. 

— > He waited for his mother to arrive at the depot. 

emulate [emjaleit] V. 

To emulate people means to imitate them because they are greatly admired. 
— As a small boy, he always tried to emulate his big brother. 

forefinger [forrfingarl n . 

The forefinger is the finger between one’s thumb and middle finger. 

-* He shouted, “There it is!” and pointed with his forefinger. 

gUtS IgAts] n. 

The guts are all the organs inside a person or animal. 

-* The doctor can tell you every process that happens in one’s guts. 


inherent [inhieranti adj. 

When something is inherent, it is a natural part of something else. 

-* Sweating is an inherent bodily function when exercising. 

intimidate lintimadeit] v. 

To intimidate means to frighten others. 

-* My dad intimidates my friends whenever they visit. 

janitor [dsaenatarj n 

A janitor is a person who makes repairs and takes care of a building. 
-♦ The school janitor cleaned up the messy cafeteria. 

moist [moist) ad). 

When something is moist, it is slightly wet. 

-* The ground is still moist from the rain last night. 

nope [noup] adv. 

Nope is an informal way of saying “no.” 

-* He asked if I had any money, and I had to say, “Nope.” 






* 



ff 

Aft# 



prod [prad] v. 

To prod means to push someone or something with a finger or pointed object. 

— The bully prodded me in the chest with his finger. 

ranSOtT) irsensam) n. 

A ransom is a sum of money paid to a kidnapper to set the person free. 

-» He kidnapped the prince and demanded $ 1 million as ransom. 

restrain instrem) v. 

To restrain someone or something means to use physical strength to stop them. 
-» Mike restrained Allen from reaching the door. 

Saliva Isalaivaj n. 

Saliva is the watery liquid in people’s mouths that helps in digestion. 

-* The baby could not keep the saliva from dripping out of its mouth. 

Spit [spitj v. 

To spit means to force liquid from one’s mouth. 

-* He emerged from the pool and spit water from his mouth. 

sprint Isprintl v 

To sprint means to run very fast over a short distance. 

-» The kids didn’t want to be late to class, so they sprinted to the bus stop. 

Stunt stAntl n. 

A stunt is something that is done in order to get attention or publicity. 

— The man jumped over the cars as a promotional stunt. 

tolerant [talarent] odj. 

When people are tolerant, they are approved of because they accept others. 

-* The tolerant leader thought that everyone was equal regardless of race. 

vampire (vaempaiar) n. 

A vampire is a fictional monster that sleeps in a coffin and sucks people’s blood. 
— * The vampire snuck up on the woman and bit her in the neck. 

yawn [pn| *. 

To yawn means to open one’s mouth wide and breathe in air. 

-* The child yawned and stretched her arms before bed for the night. 



Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. I’m glad our teacher is so accepting of others as they are. 


2. Chewing gum creates a lot of watery liquid used for digestion and c hewing foo d. 


3. She had to use physical strength to stop the big dog so that it did not try to attack us. 


4. Let’s see who can run fast ove r a short distance to the car in the shortest amount of time. 


5. Lots of people try to imitate the sports star. 


6. The ache is coming deep from within her organs within the body. 


7. Please take a slightly wet towel and wipe the surface of the table to clean it. 


8. She wore a ring on her finger between her thumb and mi ddle finger . 


9. A lack of money might limit the devel opment of the project. 


10. His answer is always an informal wav of saving no . 


Exercise 2 


Choose the one that is similar in meaning to the given word. 


prod 
a. eat 

b. push 

c. speak 

d. believe 

nope 
a. no 

b. free 

c. brave 

d. alive 

sprint 
a. crave 

b. drive 

c. run 

d. pretend 

emulate 
a. annoy 

b. proceed 

c. fear 

d. imitate 

vampire 
a. car 

b. monster 

c. feather 

d. trait 



Exercise 3 


Write C if the italicized word is used correctly. Write I if the word is used incorrectly. 

1. After walking through the desert, the thirsty man had no saliva left in his mouth. 

2. We’ve been waiting at the depot for two hours for the train to arrive! 

3. The joke was so funny that it made him yawn. 

4. The tolerant coach didn’t think that girls were good enough to play on the team. 

5. He spit on the ground to show his disgust for the situation. 

6. I hope I don’t have to constrain another essay at school tomorrow. 

7. The boy’s dream was to restrain as well as his father someday. 

8. He is usually a very calm person. His anger today was just an inherent act. 

9. The evil man expected a large ransom before he would return the child to her mother. 

10. The rotten meal gave me a terrible pain in my guts. 

11. I intimidated my homework, so I could go outside and play baseball. 

12. No one was impressed with Bobby’s stunt to get attention. 

13. Using his forefinger, he pointed to a plane in the sky. 

14. Take plenty of water with you before you begin the journey across the moist desert. 

15. The janitor had to fix the heater before people could enter the building. 


-162 



The Kidnapping 


Anne was a very quiet girl who had an inherent fear of almost everything. The kids at 
school would play tricks on her all the time. They would hide behind the door of the school 
janitor’s closet, then jump out to scare her. Once, a boy dressed up like a vampire and 
chased her down the street. Anne hated being constrained by her fears, but she didn’t 
know how to be brave. 

She was walking home from school one day when someone came up behind her. Before 
she could turn around, a powerful man grabbed her. She couldn’t scream because a huge 
hand was put over her mouth. Anne knew that this could not be another stunt by her 
classmates. The scary man restrained her arms and legs and carried her to his house. He 
tied Anne to a chair. Her guts began to hurt because she was so scared. 

The man prodded Anne with his forefinger and said, “You’ll stay right here until I get a 
ransom from your parents. Then I’ll be rich!” The dirty man spit when he talked. A string of 
saliva hung from his moist lips. Anne was terrified and intimidated by the horrible man. But 
she knew she had to escape somehow. 

Eventually, the man yawned. Anne waited quietly until he fell asleep. As he slept, she 

carefully wiggled her arms and legs until the 
ropes became loose. She slipped out of the 
ropes and carefully opened the door. She 
sprinted to the bus depot and boarded a bus 
to the police station. She told the police 
what happened, and they arrested the 
kidnapper. 

The kids at school were amazed. They 
asked her, “Weren’t you too scared to 
escape?” 

She said, “Nope, I knew that I had to 
be brave and get out of there!” 

The kids were very tolerant of Anne 
from then on. They even decided that 
they would emulate her bravery if they 
ever got into a tough situation. 


Reading Comprehension 


@ 

PART o Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Anne was constrained by her inherent fears. 


2. The vampire restrained her arms and legs and carried her to his house. 


3. Anne’s guts began to hurt because she was intimidated by her classmates. 


A. The dirty man spit when he talked. 


5. At the end, the kids were tolerant of Anne and decided to emulate her bravery. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. What would the kids do in the janitor’s closet? 


2. What happened after the man yawned? 


3. After the man prodded Anne with his forefinger, what did he say about the ransom? 


A. What did Anne do after she sprinted to the bus depot? 


5. To what question did Anne respond by saying “nope”? 




UNIT 





I 


L 


27 , 





analogy Ianaelad3i] n. 

An analogy is a connection made between things to show that they are similar. 

— The doctor made an analogy between the human heart and a water pump. 

ancestry [aensestri] n. 

A person’s ancestry is the series of people from whom a person descended. 

— » We studied our ancestry and found out that we are related to royalty. 

archer [ortM n. 

An archer is a person who uses a bow and arrows. 

— * The expert archer hit the target every time. 

conspiracy [kanspirasi] n. 

A conspiracy is a secret plan made by a group of people to do something illegal. 
-* Some people think that there was a conspiracy to kill American president John Kenned 

deputy [depjatil n. 

A deputy is the second-highest-ranking person in a business or government. 

— While the sheriff was ill, the deputy took over his duties. 


i 




earl [a:rl] n. 

An earl is a nobleman from Britain. 

— * The Earl of Canterbury lived in a huge mansion. 

fragrant [freigrantLo^/. 

When something is fragrant, it has a pleasant smell. 

-* The girl picked delicious berries and fragrant flowers. 

funnel [fAni] n. 

A funnel is an object with a wide top and a narrow bottom for pouring liquids. 
-♦ The worker used a funnel when he poured the oil into the engine. 

hereditary [inredateri] adj. 

If something is hereditary, it is a trait passed onto children from their parents. 
-* The hereditary disease affected three generations of children. 

hymn [him) n. 

A hymn is a religious song that often praises a god. 

-* The book was filled with hymns that the worshippers sang. 


£9 




i 



invert linvavt] v. 

To invert something means to turn it upside down. 

-» He inverted the bicycle to make repairs on the wheels. 


prey [prei] n. 

Prey is the animals that are hunted and eaten by another creature. 

— * The lion ran os fast as he could to catch his prey. 

procession [presejanl n. 

A procession is a group of people who walk or drive in a line during a public event. 
-» The procession all celebrated when they reached the end. 

prophet [profit) n. 

A prophet is a person chosen by a god to give the god’s message to people. 

-» Harold believed that he was one of the prophets of his god. 

sarcastic [sorkaestik] adj. 

When something is sarcastic, it is the opposite of what is actually meant. 

-* She hurt her mother’s feelings with her constant sarcastic remarks. 

Seasoning [si:zanir]] n. 

Seasoning is a mix of salt, herbs, and spices that improves the taste of food. 

-» This steak tastes bland. Maybe I’ll add some seasoning to it. 

sodium [soudiam) n 

Sodium is an element that can be used to make substances such as salt. 

-» Sodium and chloride combine to make table salt. 

tyranny [tirenil n. 

A tyranny is a cruel and unfair government in which one person has power. 

-» His tyranny was impossible to live under. 

tyrant [taiarantl n. 

A tyrant is someone who treats people in a cruel, harsh, and unfair way. 

-» Our boss is a tyrant. He makes us work long hours for little pay. 

vinegar [vinigar] n. 

Vinegar is a strong liquid made from sour wine that is used in cooking. 

— * Be careful because too much vinegar will ruin the recipe. 


2 



Exercise 





Choose the answer that best fits the question. 


1. If you invert a bottle, you . 

a. drink from it b. wash it with soap c. turn it upside down d. drop it 

2. Which of the following would most likely require the use of a funnel? 

a. Snow b. Books c. Carrots d. Water 

3. What is a wolfs prey? 

a. Its pups b. Its den c. Its food d. Its ally 

4. Which is hereditary? 

a. Place of birth b. Eye color c. Favorite foods d. Hobbies 


5. If something is fragrant, you . 

a. like to smell it b. want to eat it c. try to end it 


6. Who uses seasoning at work? 

a. A teacher b. A chef c. A builder 

7. Which of the following describes a kind of deputy? 

a. A supervisor b. A CEO c. A vice president 

8. What is made from sodium? 

a. Furniture b. Salts c. Toys 

9. Where would you most likely hear a hymn? 

a. At work b. Underwater c. At the zoo 


10. If your brother is sarcastic, he . 

a. wants to hit you b. insults you 


c. betrays you 


d. want to sing it 
d. An electrician 
d. A Manager 
d. Soda 
d. In a church 
d. is ill 


Exercise Z 


Fill in the blanks with the correct words from the word bank. 

♦ Wnril Rank £ 

prey hereditary tyrant procession vinegar 

fragrant seasoning hymns archer earls 


One ingredient in the recipe is a small amount of l 

Then you need to pour in a pint of 2 . 

She can play many instruments and sing many 3 

Her mother is a good musician, too. Her talent must be 4 

The hunter was a very talented s . 

He only needed one arrow to shoot his 6 . 

Everyone lined up to take part in the 7 . 

We marched to honor the king and the noble 8 

When it came to keeping the house clean, his mother was a 9 . 
She punished him if his room did not smell very 10 




Exercise 3 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. He liked to pour the strong tasting liquid made from so ur wine directly on his salad. 

2. To better explain the procedure, he used a great wav to show that things are similar. 

3. We were in awe of the performance of the skilled person who uses a bow and arrows. 

4. The war was a means to overthrow the cruel and unfair gov ernment . 

5. I have a feeling that the robbery was a secret plan to do something illegal by the owners. 


6. At the library, we learned how to trace our line of people from which we descended . 

7. The people were convinced that the strange visitor was a perso n cho sen by God. 

8. The father acted like a person wh o treated people in a cruel and unfair way. 

9. The British nobleman was a very kind and respected man. 

10. The new mayor’s first priority was to select a seco nd most important person. 


Exercise 4 


Write C if the italicized word is used correctly. Write I if the word is used incorrectly. 

1. The sarcastic teacher was always sure to speak clearly and honestly with his 

students. 

2. The tyranny at the church made people feel welcome. 

3. The mechanic used a funnel to pour the gas into the tank. 

4. Because of the analogy, many people were injured. 

I think the addition of more sodium to the recipe made the bread too salty. 


5. 




The Earl of Shining 


In the village of Hampton, there was 
an old soldier named Michael, but he 
was known to the world as the Earl of 
Shining. Michael was once an expert 
archer and a great fighter. In fact, 
his skills seemed to be hereditary; 
all the people in his ancestry were 
famous warriors. However, he was 
getting old and no longer wished 
to fight. 

One day, he was in the forest 
hunting prey when he saw a 
beautiful prophet singing a hymn. 

She said, “Michael, an evil army is 
involved in a conspiracy to take over 
Hampton. You’re the only one who 
can defeat them and stop the tyranny. 

The village needs you!” 

Michael replied, “But I’m too old to 
fight! I’m not confident that I can do it.” 

The prophet said, “You must try. I will even 
make a potion to increase your strength.” 

The prophet took out a bottle and a funnel. She 
poured some vinegar and garlic into the bottle. Next, 
she added some seasoning and sodium and shook it 
up. 

Michael smelled the potion. “Wow, this is 
fragrant,” he said in a sarcastic tone. He inverted 
the bottle and drank the whole potion. He 
immediately felt stronger. “I’ll try my best,” he 
promised. 

Michael rode his horse to a hilltop, where he could see the village of Hampton below. He 
saw the evil tyrant and his men marching in a procession through the town. 

Michael charged down the hill and into the village. An enemy deputy officer shouted, “He 
looks as strong as an ox!" it was an apt analogy. Michael grabbed the officer and threw him 
across the street with one arm. The rest of the officers screamed and rode away, and their 
army followed. 

The prophet reappeared. Michael said, “It’s a good thing you gave me the potion.” 

She replied, “But Michael, the potion was fake! Your strength really came from having 
confidence! 

Michael realized he really was still great. He just needed to believe in himself. 



Reading Comprehension 





PART o Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The Earl of Hampton was an expert archer who was in the forest hunting prey. 


2. The prophet used a funnel to put vinegar, garlic, some seasoning, and sodium in a 

bottle. 


3. The evil tyrant and his men marched in a procession through the town. 


4. The prophet, who sang a hymn, was involved in a conspiracy to take over Hampton. 


5. Michael’s strength really came from the fragrant potion. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. What suggests that Michael’s skills were hereditary? 


2. What analogy did an enemy deputy officer use to describe Michael? 


3. What did Michael say in a sarcastic tone before he inverted the bottle? 


4. What did Michael say after the prophet said the village needed him to stop the tyranny? 


5. What did Michael realize after his final encounter with the prophet? 


691- 




UNIT 


Word List 




adjoining Msoininl adj. 

If something is adjoining, it is next to or joined with a building, or room. 

— I couldn’t sleep because the people in the adjoining room were loud. 

allege feied3l * 

To allege something is to say that it is true without offering proof. 

-* The little girl had alleged that her older brother hid her favorite doll. 

arch [a:rtjj n. 

An arch is a curved opening formed under a structure such as a bridge or doorway. 

— The arch of the bridge was not high enough for the tall boat to pass underneath. 

assemble [ssembsi] v. 

To assemble means to get together in one place. 

-» The parents assembled to discuss ways to improve their children's education. 

Casualty [kaejuaiti] n. 

A casualty is a person killed or injured in a war or an accident. 

-* The only casualty in the car accident was a woman who broke her arm. 

erect [irekt] v. 

To erect something means to build it. 

-* The king erected two towers on the north and south sides of his castle. 

foul [faull adj. 

If something is foul, then it is not pleasant or enjoyable. 

— * He wouldn’t let his dog drink from the water because it had a foul smell. 

hectare [hektear] n. 

A hectare is a unit of measure equal to 10, ooo square meters. 

— His family farm covered many hectares. 

heighten (hatn] v. 

To heighten an emotion means to increase the intensity of it. 

-* The pleasant music heightened their enjoyment of the wonderful dinner. 

hospitality [haspitaeioti) n. 

Hospitality is friendly behavior and entertainment given to guests or strangers. 
-» The travelers were amazed at the hospitality given them by the hotel’s staff. 



B 


mansion [maenjan] n. 


A mansion is a large and expensive home. 

-* The mansion had thirty bedrooms, two kitchens, and a pool. 


outnumber [auinxmPar] v. 

To outnumber a group means to have a greater number than it. 
-* The girls outnumbered the boys at the school by four to one. 


overjoyed [ouvardjoid] adj. 

If someone is overjoyed, then they are extremely happy. 
— * He was overjoyed by the news of his promotion. 


pasture [paest/sr] n. 

A pasture is an area of land covered with grass for animals to use as food. 

-* The sheep were taken to a pasture where there was more grass. 

petition [pitijsn] n. 

A petition is a written request asking an authority to do something. 

— * The citizens all signed a petition asking the mayor to repair the sidewalks. 

renovate [renaveit] v. 

To renovate a building means to repair it or build new structures on it. 

-* The old fire station was renovated into an apartment building. 

revise [nvaiz] * 

To revise something means to change or update it to make it better. 

-* When the editor discovered certain facts were wrong, he revised the book. 

Slab [slaeoj n. 

A slab is a large, thick, flat piece of stone, concrete, metal, or wood. 

-* I looked at various slabs of stone to decorate my house. 


terrace iteras] n. 

A terrace is an open area that is connected to a house or an apartment. 
— In the afternoons, she liked to sit on the terrace and check her email. 

turf [ts:rfl n. 

Turf is a section of grass and the dirt in which it grows. 

-* After the game, the turf looked ragged. 


• • 





Exercise I 


Choose the one that is similar in meaning to the given word. 


1 . 

hectare 
a. violence 

b. 10,000m 2 

c. temple 

d. caven 

2 . 

terrace 
a. festival 

b. temper 

c. video 

d. patio 

3 . 

casualty 
a. victim 

b. effect 

c. decision 

d. perfume 

4 . 

allege 
a. reverse 

b. accuse 

c. assist 

d. digest 

5 . 

renovate 
a. refer 

b. apply 

c. repair 

d. compute 

6 . 

outnumber 
a. count 

b. share 

c. exceed 

d. borrow 

7 . 

adjoining 
a. talking 

b. reflective 

c. adjacent 

d. absolute 

8 

revise 
a. cover 

b. detest 

c. plea 

d. change 

9 . 

arch 
a. color 

b. feeling 

c. gift 

d. curve 

10 . 

petition 
a. request 

b. license 

c. animal 

d. station 


Exercise 2 


Choose the one that is opposite in meaning to the given word. 


1 . 

pasture 
a. marsh 

b. scream 

c. future 

d. 

stance 

2 . 

foul 

a. meaningful 

b. dangerous 

c. pleasant 

d. 

muscular 

3 . 

slab 

a. office 

b. freedom 

c. spit 

d. 

pebble 

4 . 

assemble 
a. believe 

b. scatter 

c. repeat 

d. 

obey 

5 . 

overjoyed 
a. stinky 

b. hidden 

c. expensive 

d. 

miserable 

6 . 

turf 

a. ocean 

b. name 

c. effort 

d. 

sport 

7 . 

erect 

a. approve 

b. destroy 

c. donate 

d. 

contain 

8 . 

heighten 
a. balance 

b. pretend 

c. elect 

d. 

reduce 

9 . 

mansion 
a. pencil 

b. shack 

c. female 

d. 

blouse 

10 . 

hospitality 
a. medicine 

b. style 

c. unfriendliness 

d. 

silence 


Exercise 3 



Write C if the italicized word is used correctly. Write I if the word is used incorrectly. 

1. Once the weather was renovated, the day was warm and sunny. Now, we were all able 

to go on a picnic in the park. 

2. The scientists worked all day in their slab. They were inventing a new plastic that 

would not melt under the extreme heat of the sun. 

3. The amount of cows outnumbered the pigs. There were more pigs than cows. 

4. _ Why don’t you connect those two large blue arches, so that you can form a giant 

square? 

5. The worse casualty from the earthquake was a woman who broke a leg. 

6. The two enemies erected a wall between their properties. They had hoped that it 

would reduce any future arguments. 

7. Whenever Doug was in a foul mood, everyone enjoyed being around him. 

8. The glass was filled with a hectare of water. 

9. This is the kitchen, and the adjoining room is the dining room. 

10. The visit lacked in hospitality. There was nothing to eat and nowhere to sit. 

11. You can stay in the house tonight, but your dog has to sleep outside in the mansion. 

12. William alleged all the way home. As a result, he was out of breath and sweaty by the 

time he got there. 

13. The grandmother was overjoyed to see her grandchildren. She couldn’t stop smiling 

when she saw their lovely faces. 

14. This room here is the pasture. It’s where we keep all our old furniture. 

15. The manager read his employees’ petition. They wanted a longer lunch break. 

g 


The Lord and the Farmers 

A wealthy lord was renovating his mansion. He had added another story to his home 
with large windows that overlooked the farmers’ pastures on the eastern border of his land. 
Around the mansion, he then erected a great wall. He built an arch for the gate out of huge 
slabs of stone. The lord was overjoyed with the addition to his home. 

However, one day while he was sitting on the terrace, some farmers knocked at his door. 
He invited them in. Despite his hospitality, the farmers appeared to be in a foul mood. 

“Why are you so upset?” the lord asked. 

One farmer replied, “That is actually the reason for our visit.” He then handed the lord a 
petition. It alleged that the shadow cast by the mansion was harming their pastures. "Your 
mansion now casts a shadow over several hectares of our land,” the farmer explained. “The 
turf in the shadow has died, and our cattle now have less grass to eat.” 

“It is too late for me to revise my plans,” the lord answered. “You will just have to live 
with the change.” 

His reply only heightened the farmers’ anger. They left, but they assembled that night 
outside the mansion’s gate. They planned to destroy the mansion. The lord’s servants tried 
to defend the house, but the farmers outnumbered them. 

The servants fled, and the farmers rushed into the mansion and set it on fire. Everyone 
got out of the house, and there were no casualties. However, the fire soon spread from the 
house to the adjoining pastures that belonged to the farmers. 

Both sides’ properties were destroyed. The lord and the farmers were sorry for their 
actions. The lord promised to pay for the burned pastures, and the farmers promised to 
rebuild the mansion. They had learned that when you fight, both sides lose. 





<r 

C= 


Reading Comprehension 






PART o Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The farmers that assembled outnumbered the lord’s servants. 


2. Despite the lord’s hospitality, the farmers appeared to be overjoyed. 


3. The lord built an arch for the gate out of slabs of stone. 


4. When the lord said it was too late to revise his plans, it heightened the farmers’ foul 

mood. 


5. The pastures were owned by the lord. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. What did the farmers’ petition allege? 


2. While renovating, what did the lord erect around his mansion? 


3. What happened to the pastures adjoining the burning mansion? 


4. Why were there no casualties in the fire at the mansion? 



5. While he was sitting on the terrace, who knocked on the mansion door? 


• • 






analogous [anaelagas] adj. 

If something is analogous to another thing, then it is like it in certain ways. 

-* The relationship with his teacher was analogous to that of a son and mother. 

binoculars [banokjalan:] n. 

Binoculars are a device used for seeing things that are far away. 

— He could see the ship on the horizon only if he used his binoculars. 

bulk [bAlk] n. 

The bulk of something is its great size. 

— * The large elephant moved its bulk with legs as strong as tree trunks. 

Comprise [kampraiz] v. 

If something comprises something else, it consists of or is made up of it. 

— Our school’s football team is mostly comprised with seniors. 

depict [dipikt] v. 

To depict something means to show or portray it, often using art. 

-» The statue's face depicted the general’s determination and courage. 

dual IdRi alJ adj. 

If something is dual, then it is made up of two parts. 

-* The room had a dual function. It was a living room, but at night it was a bedroom. 

Fahrenheit [teranhait] n. 

Fahrenheit temperature is a scale where water freezes at 32° and boils at 212°. 

-» When the temperature dropped to 32° Fahrenheit, it started snowing. 

fulfill [fulfil] v. 

To fulfill something means to achieve or finish it. 

-* The professor did not fulfill his promise not to miss a single class. 

grove [grouv] n. 

A grove is a small group of trees. 

-» All the trees in this grove are apple trees. 

ore [o:r] n. 

Ore is the raw form of rock or material from which a valuable metal is taken. 

-• The factory melted the ore and used it to make iron products. 




OUtback lautbsekl n. 

The outback is the wild inland region of Australia where very few people live. 

-* Many Australian farmers use the outback to raise cattle. 

Outweigh lautwei] v. 

To outweigh something means to exceed it in value, amount, or importance. 

-» Finding a warm place to sleep outweighed the need to find something to eat. 

paradox [paeradbks] n. 

A paradox is a true statement or real event that seems illogical. 

-* The paradox of her work was that the less she worked, the more she got done. 

pier [pier] n. 

A pier is a structure that extends into a body of water. 

-* If you want to catch bigger fish, then go to the far end of the pier. 

shortcut f/o rtkAt] n. 

A shortcut is a route that is shorter than the main route. 

-* We got to the house first because we took a shortcut through the forest. 

tariff [laerif] n. 

A tariff is a tax or fee paid on certain imports or exports. 

-* Our tariff on imported wool makes foreign wool more expensive. 

thermometer [ea rmamita.r] n. 

A thermometer is a device that measures temperature. 

-» The thermometer outside the window indicated that it was a hot day today. 

tilt l tilt] v. 

To tilt something means to tip it into a sloping position. 

-* She tilted her glass and almost spilled some of the wine inside. 

vice versa [vaisivarsa] adv. 

If a statement is vice versa, then its two main ideas are switched with one another. 
-» Students learn from their teachers, and vice versa. 

whereabouts [/rwearabautsl n. 

The whereabouts of someone or something is the place where they are. 

-* The police looked for the lost dog, but its whereabouts were still unknown. 


Exercise I 


Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. Binoculars help you to see things that are . 

a. close by b. under the sea c. faraway d. covered in mud 

2. If you have dual responsibilities, then you have things to take care of. 



a. two b. three 

c. ten 

d. twelve 

3. 

Which of the following is about the same as a tariff? 



a. A salary b. A tax 

c. A surplus 

d. A bonus 

4. 

Where would you most likely see a pier? 




a. In the water b. On a plane 

c. Under the ground 

d. On a road 

5. 

Fahrenheit is used to measure 




a. height b. distance 

c. weight 

d. temperature 


Exercise Z 


Fill in the blanks with the correct words from the word bank. 

................................... 

outback thermometer vice versa ore outweighed 

whereabouts grove fulfill Fahrenheit shortcut 


When the food is ready, its temperature should be 140 degrees l 

You can use that 2 to determine when it is hot enough. 

There are not many forests in the Australian 3 . 

But there might be a u wherever there is enough water. 

She didn’t have much time to get to the house to 5 her promise. 

Therefore, she took a(n) s that would get her there in no time. 

The need to create more jobs 7 the need to spend more money. 

But in other years it was 8 . 

According to legend, gold was made from the cave’s 9 . 

However, today its 10 have been forgotten. 




Exercise 3 





Choose the one that is similar in meaning to the given word. 

1. comprise 


a. return 

b. consist 

c. explain 

d. favor 

2. tilt 
a. mix 

b. dig 

c. lean 

d. grip 

3. pier 
a. dock 

b. cake 

c. chef 

d. fort 

4. analogous 
a. metric 

b. powerful 

c. secure 

d. similar 

5. paradox 
a. illogical 

b. cattle 

c. calendar 

d. feather 


Exercise 4 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. These mines produce several types of valuable raw forms of rock . 

2. The company had to pay a tax on exports for the steel it shipped to Europe. 

3. She used the device used for seeing things far away to observe the small bird. 

4. The painting portrayed what the beach looked like twenty years ago. 

5. He had sent a letter from the city three days earlier. But his precise location was still a mystery. 

6. The two-part plan involves scientists from both universities. 

7. The meal was made up mostly of beans and vegetables. 

8. If you’re sick, take your temperature. The device for measuring.temperature is in the cabinet. 

9. His promotion was a real event opposite to common knowledge due to his sparse knowledge. 




10. It was difficult to lift the great mass that had accumulated in his backpack. 


The Shortcut 



A truck driver was driving cargo from the outback to the coast. His load was comprised of 
many types of ore. He needed a huge truck to carry its bulk to a ship waiting at a pier on the 
country’s eastern coast. At the border between two counties, he’d have to pay a tariff on the 
cargo. However, he could keep his money if he avoided the station at the border. He worried 
about getting in trouble for not paying the tariff, but the thought of extra money outweighed 
this concern. 

He took out his road map. To his surprise, it depicted a small road that had a dual 
advantage. It not only avoided the border station but also was a shorter route to the coast. 
He decided to take the shortcut. 

However, along his journey, he soon ran into problems. First, he had to cross a small 
wooden bridge. His truck weighed too much for the bridge. It was analogous to an elephant 
trying to stand on a tree branch. The bridge started to break as the truck crossed, and the 
trailer tilted to the right. Fortunately, the truck made it safely across, but most of the ore fell 
into the river below. 

Next, it was a very hot day. The thermometer read over 100 degrees Fahrenheit. The 
truck’s engine became too hot, so the driver parked it in the shade of a grove of trees until 
it cooled down. 

Later, he took a wrong turn. He stopped and took out his binoculars. He scanned his 
surroundings and eventually discovered a landmark that led him back to the proper route. 

Finally, he arrived at the pier, but the ship wasn’t there. When he asked about the ship’s 
whereabouts, a man said that it had left thirty minutes ago. He had not fulfilled his duty. He 

realized then the paradox of the shortcut. The shortest 
route can be the longest, and vice versa, a long 
route may be the fastest. 


I 




eadinq Camprehensian 


wm 


PART Q Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. The driver’s load was comprised of many types of ore. 


2. The paradox of the shortcut was that the shortest route could be the longest but not 

vice versa. 


3. The thermometer read under 100 degrees Fahrenheit. 


4. When the trailer tilted, the driver’s binoculars fell into the river. 


5. The driver had fulfilled his duty. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. What was the truck crossing the bridge analogous to? 


2. What outweighed the driver’s concern of being punished for not paying the tariff? 


3. What was the dual advantage of the route depicted on the map? 


4. What made the driver park his truck in a grove of trees while in the outback? 


5. Why couldn’t the driver determine the ship’s whereabouts at the pier? 


00 




— »B2 


UNIT 


Word List 




amber [sembar] n. 

Amber is a hard, yellowish material that comes from trees. 

-* The necklace was made from pieces of amber. 

charcoal [tfcrrkoul] n. 

Charcoal is a black material that is used as fuel for fire. 

-* There was burnt charcoal left on the ground from an old fire. 

columnist [kalarrvrist] n. 

A columnist is a writer who creates articles about a particular subject. 

— The columnist won praise for his articles about life on the farm. 

courteous [kartigs) a dj. 

When someone is courteous, they are polite and respectful. 

-* The mother asked her family to be courteous to their guests. 

credentials (krtdenfslz) n. 

Credentials are the proof of someone’s experience or ability to do something. 

-* The mechanic hung his credentials on his office wall. 

cricket [krikit] n. 

A cricket is an insect that makes loud noises, usually at night. 

— In the country, we could see the stars and hear the crickets at night. 

delta [delta] n. 

A delta is flat area where a river splits into smaller rivers that flow into the sea. 

— * The archeologists found many ancient materials in the delta of the Nile River. 

detergent [dito.rdjant] n. 

Detergent is soap that is used to clean clothes or dishes. 

-* My brother added too much detergent to the wash, and bubbles got all over the floor. 

euphemism Iju famizsm) n. 

A euphemism is a term that is used in place of a mean or unpleasant word. 

-* "Window maintenance officer” is a euphemism for a window washer. 

expire likspaiar] v. 

To expire is to no longer be effective because its use has come to an end. 

-* The man’s driver’s license was going to expire in two days. 






granite Igrcemt] n. 

Granite is a very hard type of rock that is often black or pink. 

— The kitchen counter was made of granite. 

gravel [graevsf] n. 

Gravel is a combination of small stones mixed with sand. 

— * The ground around the swing set was covered with gravel. 

haunt [hont] v. 

To haunt is to cause problems or negative thoughts over a long period of time. 

-» His thoughts about his scary dream haunted him for weeks. 

liberal llibaral] adj. 

When someone is liberal, they accept different ideas and people. 

-♦ My grandparents aren’t as liberal as my parents. 

maze Imeiz] n. 

A maze is a system of paths that is complicated and easy to get lost in. 

-> We got lost in the maze in the garden. 

mOSS [mo(.)s] n. 

Moss is a small green or yellow plant that grows on wet dirt, rocks, or tree trunks. 

— Be careful not to slip on the moss that’s covering those rocks. 

pebble [pebsi] n. 

A pebble is a small, round stone. 

-* We threw pebbles into the lake to make the water splash. 

peck [pekl V. 

When a bird pecks, it bites or hits something with its beak. 

-* The birds pecked at the seeds on the ground. 

reservoir [reza/'vwa.r] n. 

A reservoir is a place for storing water for a town to use. 

-» If it doesn't rain soon, the reservoir is going to dry up completely. 

streak istn.k] n. 

A streak is a long, thin mark that is easy to see. 

-» Her hair was brown except for a streak which she dyed blonde. 


183 


Exercise 1 


Choose the answer that best fits the question. 

1. Where does a columnist work? 

a. At a university b. At a newspaper c. At a restaurant 

2. Which of the following might a liberal person do? 

a. Restrict freedoms b. Learn new ideas c. Reject free speech 

3. What animal pecks? 

a. A bee b. A cat c. A bird 

4. What is stored in a reservoir? 

a. Water b. Food c. Books 

5. Which of these animals have a long streak on their bodies? 

a. A skunk b. Ahorse c. A rhino 


Exercise 2 


Write a word that is similar in meaning to the underlined part. 

1. After seeing her house on fire, lenna was troubled by thoughts of fire. 

2. The boy had small round rocks stuck on the bottom of his shoe. 


3. The bird bit or hit the dish and carried away pieces of bread. 


4. The city made a place to store water, so there would always be water for the people. 


5. She poured soap to clean dishes into the sink and washed the dishes. 


6. The woman was impressed by her friend’s polite and respectful brother. 


7. The scientist went to school for many years to earn her proof of ability. 


8. I added some more rocks that served as fuel to the fire. 


9. Clara didn’t want to offend her grandmother, so she used a replacement for an unpleasant 
word to refer to old age. 


d. At an airport 
d. Support tyranny 
d. A tiger 
d. Tools 
d. A gorilla 


10. The land in the flat place where the river divides was good for growing food. 




Exercise 3 






Choose the one that is similar in meaning to the given word. 


columnist 
a. singer 

b. journalist 

c. electrician 

d. 

CEO 

cricket 

a. grasshopper 

b. beetle 

c. ant 

d. 

mosquito 

maze 

a. disguise 

b. hoop 

c. tower 

d. 

puzzle 

gravel 
a. boulder 

b. rock 

c. hill 

d. 

mound 

haunt 
a. calm 

b. play 

c. terrorize 

d. 

soothe 


Exercise 4 


Fill in the blanks with the correct words from the word bank. 

* Word Banl< | 

expired courteous amber pebbles streak 

reservoir crickets maze moss granite 


They had three minutes to find their way out of the 1 . 

They had to get out before the time 2 . 

Jessica had the carpet in her house replaced with 3 tiles. 

The tiles had lovely designs on them and also pieces of 4 . 

Gene squeezed the bottle and got a 5 of ketchup on his shirt. 

The 6 host was nice enough to get him a new shirt. 

There was a pile of 7 near the water. 

They had been washed up from the bottom of the 8 . 

We walked down the road and passed many trees covered in 9 

It was dark already, and all that could be heard were the 10 . 



The Mad Hatter 

One morning, Lucas sat outside with his grandfather. They looked past the gravel road that 
led to a natural reservoir on the delta. On the other side of the water, there was a cottage. 

“Does a ghost live there?” Lucas asked. 

“No, a mad hatter lives there,” said his grandfather. Lucas didn’t know what a mad hatter 
was, but the image of a scary man haunted him. 

Later, Lucas went for a walk in the forest. He collected pieces of amber and granite that 
he found on the ground. He looked at the moss on the trees and watched a bird peck at the 
ground. But the forest was like a maze. Soon, Lucas was lost. 

Lucas heard somebody behind him. He wanted to run away, but he fell. He had a streak 
of blood on his shirt and some pebbles stuck in his skin. Then a man appeared. 

“I will take you home. First, let’s get you cleaned up,” he said. 

Lucas followed him. When they arrived at the cottage, he realized the man was the mad 
hatter! 

He sat down inside. It smelled like charcoal, but it looked like a normal house. The man 
brought Lucas back some medicine. 

“It’s a bit old, but it’s not expired,” the man said. 

While Lucas cleaned his cut, the man washed the blood out of his shirt with detergent. 

Lucas asked, “Are you a mad hatter?” 

The man laughed and replied, “That’s a euphemism for a crazy person. Actually, I’m 
pretty normal. I’m a columnist for a newspaper,” said the man. He pointed to his credentials 
which hung on the wall. 

Lucas could hear the crickets outside. It was getting dark, so he asked, “Could you take 
me home now?” 

The man said yes. Lucas was surprised that people thought the man was crazy. He was 
actually very courteous. Maybe Lucas should have a more liberal attitude. Next time, Lucas 
wouldn’t make judgments about people without getting to know them first. 


PART Q Mark each statement T for true or F for false. Rewrite the false 
statements to make them true. 

1. Lucas’s thoughts about the house across the reservoir haunted him. 


2. Lucas collected crickets and moss while he walked through the forest. 


3. The bird was pecking at the maze. 


4. Lucas got a streak of blood on his shirt and pebbles in his skin from falling down. 


5. The man’s house smelled like food that had expired. 


PART O Answer the questions. 

1. Where was the cottage located in relation to the grandfather’s house? 


2. What did the man wash Lucas’s shirt with? 


3. Why did the man point to his credentials on the wall? 


4. What did the man say about the term "mad hatter”? 


5. What did the courteous man teach Lucas at the end of the story? 






abide 146 

abolish 128 

absurd 20 

accelerate 104 

accumulate 62 

acrobat 152 

adhere 92 

adhesive 122 

adjoining 170 

administer 92 

adorn 74 

advent 116 

adverse 122 

advocacy 152 

advocate 68 

aerial 62 

airway 116 

allege 170 

alleviate b 

allocate 140 

Almighty 116 

altar 44 

alternate 32 

amber 182 

amend 128 

amid 98 

analogous 176 

analogy 164 

ancestry 164 

anemia 20 

anew 104 

apologetic 32 

apparatus 62 

appetizing 140 

arch 170 

archer 164 

arduous 14 

aristocracy 20 

aristocrat 20 

artery 56 

arthritis 44 

ashore 38 

aspire 128 


assemble 170 

astrology 8 

attain 14 

attic 26 

attire 20 

authorize 68 

avalanche 62 



backstage 98 

beforehand 110 

benign • 32 

billionaire 98 

binoculars 176 

bliss 74 

blizzard 140 

botany 44 

brute 98 

bulk 176 

butler 74 



camouflage 86 

casualty 170 

cavity 140 

censor 128 

centigrade 110 

certify so 

char 32 

charcoal 182 

charter 128 

chatter 110 

chunk 26 

civic 26 

civilian 68 

clarify 32 

clockwise 140 

clumsy 98 

coexist 14 

collaborate so 

collide 98 

columnist 182 


commodity 68 

communal 152 

compassionate 92 

compile so 

comprise 176 

conceive 14 

concentric 140 

concerto no 

condense no 

congested 50 

conquest 68 

consistency 62 

conspiracy 164 

constellation 116 

constitution 128 

constrain 158 

contaminate 92 

contemplate 86 

contend 86 

contradict 38 

convection 62 

conversion 146 

cosmopolitan 128 

cot 86 

counteract 80 

counterpart 38 

courier 50 

courteous 182 

courtesy 140 

cove no 

coward 134 

cram 146 

cramp 74 

craze 20 

credentials 182 

credible 44 

crickets 182 

crisp ho 

culprit 98 

curb so 



deceased 44 


deception 

44 

decipher 

44 

defect 

104 

defer 

146 

deficiency 

... 92 

definitive 

... 116 

deform 

... 50 

delete 

...134 

delta 

182 

dependency 

122 

depict 

... 176 

depot 

158 

deputy 

164 

descent 

... 26 

detergent 

182 

deteriorate 


deterioration • 

.... 56 

devoid 

38 

diagnose 

80 

differentiate ••• 

.... 8 

dilapidated 


din 


discharge 

62 

disclose 

.... 68 

discord 

140 

disrupt 

8 

dissatisfy 


disseminate • 

128 

distress 

32 

diverge 

38 

dogged 

32 

dreary 

104 

dual 


dubious 

14 

dump 

122 

j 

44 

uung 


duplicate 

104 

dusk 

44 

dynamics 

68 

B 


earl 

164 

earnest 

134 


ego 14 

elastic 14 

electromagnetic 104 

electron 104 

elude 38 

elusive 56 

embryo 38 

emulate 158 

enact 80 

endeavor 14 

engrave 14 

enlarge 20 

enlist 86 

enroll 68 

ensue 32 

envious 68 

epidemic 92 

equate 116 

equation 8 

erect 170 

err - 8 

erroneous 8 

eternal 122 

ethnic 134 

etiquette so 

euphemism i 82 

euphoria 68 

evacuate 98 

evoke 74 

excavate 14 

excess 20 

exclude 134 

exclusive so 

expire 182 

export 146 

exterior 110 



Fahrenheit 176 

farewell 74 

faucet 74 

federation 80 

feminine 


fend 

38 

festive 

69 

fictitious 


filth 

74 

firsthand 

134 

flammable • 

98 

flatter 

128 

flaw 


fluctuate •••• 


fluent 


fluid 

152 

forage 

56 

forefinger ••• 

158 

foul 

170 

fragrant 

164 

frantic 

8 

freeway 

110 

Froioht 

cn 

1 ICI 51 II 


f • • j 

1 /lfl 

rrigia 


fro 

122 

frontier 


fulfill 


fume 

146 

funnel 

164 

fuss 

26 



garment so 

gasp 32 

gazette 38 

generate 141 

glacial 141 

glide 104 

gourmet 26 

granite 183 

gratify 44 

gravel 183 

grin 75 

gross so 

grove 176 

guts 158 



habitual 

hallmark 

handbook 

harmonize 

haunt 

hazard 

hearty 

hectare 

heighten 

hence 

hereditary 

hesitant 

homogeneous 

hone 

hospitable 

hospitality 

housekeeping 

hull 

humane 

hymn 


146 

20 

86 

152 

183 

92 

110 

170 

170 

26 

164 

86 

39 

45 

111 

170 

75 

8 

80 

164 


impede 56 

imperative 92 

imperial 134 

improvise 9 

inadvertent 8 

inclusion 122 

inclusive 134 

induce 56 

industrious 152 

infamous 128 

ingenious 104 

inhale 116 

inherent 158 

innovation 104 

innovative 105 

inseparable 56 

insomnia so 

intact 62 

interchange 141 

intermediate 122 


intermittent 122 

intestines 92 

intimidate 158 

intolerable 8i 

intrinsic 26 

intuitive 50 

invalid 56 

inventive 152 

invert 165 

invoke 116 



jagged 
janitor • 
jolly •••• 
judicial 
justify • 


15 

158 

69 

152 

146 



D 

lame 129 

latitude 9 

launch 105 

legislature 134 

lentil 69 

liable so 

liberal 183 

limp 129 

linguistic 135 

locale is 

locker 141 

lunar 116 

lush 86 


□ 

magnify 56 


20 


mainstream 56 

Mandarin 152 

manifest 92 

manor 111 

mansion 171 

mariner 9 

marrow 86 

marshal 69 

mash 45 

maze 183 

mentor 123 

metabolic 93 

meteorological 105 

meteorology 105 

metropolitan 152 

microbe 57 

mimic 153 

ministry 27 

misguided 153 

mob 98 

moist 158 

mold 15 

monastery 111 

monolingual 135 

morale 69 

mortal 62 

mOSS 183 

mound 75 

multicultural 141 

multitude 9 


□ 

nationality 135 

needy 8 i 

negligible 57 

negotiate 32 

nope 158 

novelty 116 

nuisance 9 

numb 75 

nursery 111 



obsess 51 

obstruct 39 

omen 62 

omission 141 

onset si 

ordeal 27 

ore 176 

ornate 45 

outback 177 

outburst 129 

outfit 87 

outmoded 117 

outnumber 171 

OUtpUt 146 

outright 15 

outspoken 27 

outstretched 111 

outweigh 177 

overboard 51 

overcast 63 

overcrowded 93 

overdose 33 

overjoyed 171 

overpopulation -146 

oversee 141 

overwork 2 7 


□ 

pad 21 

paradox 177 

paralysis 57 

paramount 93 

parcel 111 

particular 27 

pasture 171 

patent 147 

pathological 129 

patriot 135 

paw 87 

pebble 183 

peck 183 

penalize 147 


penetrate 105 

periphery 15 

permanence 9 

personalize 117 

persuasion 33 

pertain 117 

pest 57 

petition 171 

petroleum 147 

phenomenal 129 

phoenix 123 

photosynthesis 123 

pier 177 

pierce 141 

plaster 15 

pledge si 

plunge 39 

pneumonia 45 

poignant 63 

poll 129 

pollen 123 

practitioner 93 

predominant 21 

premature 99 

premium 51 

prevail 57 

prey 165 

primal 117 

privilege 51 

procession 165 

prod 159 

profile 111 

prohibit 8 i 

prolong 39 

propel 51 

prophecy 69 

prophet 165 

propulsion 105 

prosecute 135 

prototype 147 

provision 93 

psychiatric 117 

psychiatry 117 

psychic 45 

psychotic 45 


publicize 39 

pungent 27 



quiver 87 



racial 135 

ranger 63 

ransom 159 

rash 8 i 

reckless 75 

reflex 117 

regain 123 

rehearse 153 

relay 33 

reluctance 33 

remorse 129 

render 81 

renovate 171 

replenish 93 

replicate 141 

reputable 21 

resent 99 

reservoir 183 

respiration 57 

restate 33 

restrain 159 

reverse 123 

revise 171 

revolve 9 

rouge 21 

rubble 63 

rupture 57 



sage 

69 

saliva 


sarcastic 


satire 


savage 



iiuiaA 


scope 45 

scorn 153 

scrap 147 

scrutiny 99 

seasoning 165 

seclude 63 

secrecy 129 

sector 147 

segregate 99 

seizure 117 

senate 69 

sensory 153 

sentiment 69 

sesame 33 

session 117 

shortcut 177 

shovel is 

sideways 63 

signify 21 

simulate 105 

sinister 45 

sip 33 

skeletal 15 

slab 171 

slate 75 

smallpox 8i 

snore 27 

sob 63 

sober 63 

socialize 51 

sodium 165 

solemn 135 

solidarity 135 

soothe 9 

soundly 27 

sparse 39 

speck 63 

spit 159 

splendid 87 

sprint 159 

spur 105 

staple 153 

statute 153 

sterile 93 

stimulate 105 


Stool 

•• 75 

stranded 

9 

strap 


stray 

87 

streak 

183 

strife 

.. 45 

stun 

•• 57 

stunt 

159 

subject 

•* 99 

subscribe 

147 

subsist 

147 

substantial 

87 

superintendent • 

*• 27 

suppress 

*. 51 

surplus 

39 

susceptible 

57 

suspend 

147 

swarm 

123 

synthesis 



tumult 99 

turf 171 

tyranny 165 

tyrant 165 


□ 

underestimate 99 

undermine 135 

unrest 69 

unsettle 51 

upbringing 63 

upgrade 93 

uproar 99 

utensil 117 



waver 33 

wavy 141 

weary 87 

whereabouts 177 

winding 111 


a 


yawn 

159 

□ 



zip 111 


D 

tackle 129 

tact 135 

tangle 21 

tariff 177 

tenacious * 105 

terrace 171 

terrestrial 15 

testament 75 

testify 99 

texture 123 

theorize 39 

therapeutic 45 

thermometer 177 

tickle 123 

tilt 177 

timber 75 

tolerant 159 

torch 87 

tract 87 

tram 51 

trance 129 

transmit 8i 


valve 75 

vampire 159 

vanity 21 

verge 33 

verify 39 

veteran 153 

viable 93 

vibrant 123 

vice versa 1 77 

vicious is 

vie 21 

vigil 87 

vigorous 39 

villain 153 

vine 153 

vinegar 165 

vivacious 111 

volatile 9 

voluntary 93 

vow 81 

vulgar 21 


□ 

warp 51 

wary 33 